heartiest welcome, my fondest thoughts to you both, wishing had been able to come down with Jim. Am with you in my heart. Sending love to all." He told Jim Whittaker that he "would have given his soul" to come to Naples to meet us, but his mother was ill and he couldn't.

Now I must send this and write to someone else.
Faithful love,
Mary
December 9. 1912. Shepheard’s Hotel Cairo
Dearest Adeline - I've seen the Sphinx. In hot sunlight, with a sky of a blue to make one gasp, with the desert wind in our faces and desert sand sifting into our shoes, with an atmosphere of molten pearls in the distance, with here and there a white-robed Arab, a stately camel, a white donkey with gay trappings, with the pyramids towering in the background - we saw her. No description I have ever read, no picture I have ever seen had prepared me. I'd like to sit and look at her for days. The pyramids are tremendously impressive to think about, but it did not thrill me to see them; and I cannot describe the feeling that surged through me when I faced the Sphinx. Doris and I wanted to climb the Great Pyramid but Cousin Theodore absolutely refused to have us boosted by Arabs so we had to give it up. The Sphinx has been our great experience since my last letter.
For the rest, the Arabian nights continues. We are wakened in the morning by the cry of the kites wheeling above the garden. When I fling open my blinds and look into said garden with its towering palms, its wonderful plants, its vivid lawns, I see a crane stepping "high, wide and handsome" along the bright red paths. This morning as I was standing on the terrace in front of the hotel a man went by on the sidewalk with a goat trotting along on one side of him and a monkey on the other. The white-robed, red-sashed, befezzed individual who salaams as he opens the dining room door for us, wears a silver ring inserted coyly in the top of his right ear. Gorgeous creatures, glittering with gold embroidery, seated at intervals in the halls, rise and salaam as we pass. But the thing that, even after a week here, strikes me as being a masquerade and not real life is the women on the sidewalks or in beautifully appointed carriages who look mysteriously at you with dark eyes gleaming above the white veil that hides the rest of their faces. The woman on the sidewalk for the most part wears the black veil, but she in the victoria or brougham wears the white.
Yesterday after church at All Saints where Mr. Sayce preached an excellent sermon on "Thy Kingdom Come", Harry Burton and I drove to the Blue Mosque, crumbling but very beautiful and with several interior walls covered with superb Persian tiles, any one of which
I should consider a treasure. Hundreds of youths and boys were seated in groups on the ground reciting the Koran at the top of their lungs. In the afternoon we had a little tea on the dahabeah (its name is the Beduin) and, while awaiting our guests, were infinitely amused watching the antics of our white cock and gorgeous drake each trying to assert supremacy over a certain spot on the bank. The drake was victorious and then proceeded to make himself look exactly like Napoleon.
Our guests were Mr. Sayce, Artin Pasha, and an Egyptian gentleman Claudius Bey, whose hair turned snow white a few years ago when he went to meet his wife on an incoming steamer at Alexandria and found her murdered in her cabin. His two little girls, aged seven and five, are living in England with their Grandmother, and he said he fancied he would have to go live in England too, as they absolutely refused to come back to Egypt - seven and five! I had an
7