thorn bushes of the desert he drew the snakes and never once when he would pounce on a rock and turn it over did he fail to find a scorpion. And the scorpions stung him and the snakes bit him, and then he would drop them into a strong basket with a weighted plug-like stopper to it, and a cord handle to carry it by. We lunched in one of the side rooms of the temple and when rested and comfortably full of bread and butter and sardines and pate de foie gras and cake and ginger ale and Turkish coffee, we rose up and demanded a cobra. It was against the rules to hunt for it in the temple, Maspero having forbidden it, but we did it. Through one great court we followed the Arab and his incantation, then into another, and when he began pushing his sleeves up to his shoulders we knew he smelled his quarry (that's what he does - he smells them). He stepped from ruined wall to ruined wall and suddenly bent forward with what sounded like a shout of command, and out from a crack between two great blocks of stone slid the wicked head of a cobra. With a jerk of his stick the Arab brought the four feet of reptile out and it slipped and curved over the pavement, then raised its head, spread its hood and struck. It didn't hit anything but I heard its jaws come together. Then the Arab picked it up and showed us its fangs and it struck again, leaving drops of poison on his sleeve. Then the Contessa took it and holding it tightly just back of the venomous head she put it around her neck. It was, to me, an absolutely revolting spectacle.
She and Mr. Tremaine both wear charms that the Arab has given them. I asked Mr. Tremaine to tell me as man to man whether or not he believed in his charm. To which he replied that this much he knew - that not for anything would the Arab let any of the rest of us, who had no charm, handle the snakes which he permitted him and the Contessa to take hold of freely. His theory is that the charms are saturated with some kind of essence of snake which the snakes smell and which renders the wearers more or less immune. The show over we all ambled home in a rather spectacular train in the lovely sunlight across the Memnonian plain. And Cousin Theodore didn't believe a word of it.
Wednesday. January 22. 
This afternoon I played in a tennis tournament at the Winter Palace - mixed doubles. My partner was a very nice Scotsman named MacNaughton, and we defeated English lords and German baronesses and commoners like ourselves, and won the first prize. And not a Yale athlete of them all can boast a cup like mine. It pursued me in a boat from the Winter Palace, for I had beaten a modest retreat, not knowing that I had won anything.
Friday. January 24. 
Yesterday Doris and I had a lovely afternoon. Mrs. Pier had invited us over to the Winter Palace for the Gym Khana, and we sat and baked in the sunshine and were much amused watching the sports and the crowds of people. Luxor seems very full just now and there are two or three American dahabyas tied up on that side, though I don't know who is on them.
Today, in the afternoon, Cousin T., Doris and I rode over to our new diggings at Medinet Habu. Harry began there yesterday and says he is glad to be working above ground. The children who were carrying off the dirt were all singing some sort of chant. "Have they been singing like that all day?" I asked. "Oh, no!" said Harry, "they are simply singing 'The Boss has come, the Boss has come." The light was perfectly exquisite as it fell on Libyan Cliffs, on stately temple walls, on heaps of rubbish, on spots of truly emerald verdure, on a lonely Coptic Monastery far off in the desert, and on one splendid Beduin swinging on his camel over the sands toward the western sun, twirling his camel stick in the air.
Good-bye, dears all, till another week. Your devoted Mary
25