absorbingly interesting talk with Mr. Sayce, who told me some inside history about Gordon, who has always been one of my heroes.
This afternoon Harry Burton and I dashed out in the motorcar to see the obelisk. He couldn't tell me what obelisk and the guidebook had been sent to the Beduin. But it was worth going to see, and in the neighborhood was an estate enclosed in one of those high mud walls that fascinate me so, and between the obelisk and the wall a flock of goats were feeding, shepherded by three shrouded figures - quite perfect as a picture.
Harry starts for Luxor tonight by train. There isn't a room for him on the dahabeah, worse luck - he's one of the most amusing persons I've ever known.
We board the Beduin tomorrow some time. It's all enchanting whether we go or stay.
Goodbye, dears all, for this time. Devotedly,
Mary
Tuesday. December 10. 1912. Dahabya Beduin
Egypt
Dearest Adeline:-
Our first night on the dahabeah (it really doesn't matter much how you spell it - though I doubt not that the way at the top of this is really the most knowing). We spent the morning in preparations to move from the hotel, paying bills, etc., and dashing across the street for final purchases at little shops. Also Cousin Theodore elected to make it Christmas for Doris and me, bestowing upon Doris a pearl and diamond ring and upon me a gold mesh bag -much too elegant for 615 Orange Street, but which really suits me to a T! At about 2:30, after tipping whole tribes of Arabs and other more commonplace nations of the earth, we four entered the bright red motor cat and scooted Nile-wards, followed by Jones and Amelie in another vehicle, the tops of their heads just visible above the masses of hand luggage packed around them. Although we had visited the Beduin daily it was with quite a different sensation that we stepped down our flowery bank (we have quite a garden) and really took possession. Then we all set to work putting innumerable belongings into what seemed absolutely inadequate spaces for them. But we finally evolved perfect order, the unpacked trunks were sent back to Cook's and the whole place looks like the Abode of Peace - a very luxurious Peace, I grant you! On answering a twice repeated summons to tea on the upper deck, I found a foreign gentleman of - to me - most unpleasant personality, who on being introduced to me, rose, brought his heels together, swept off is hat and bowed from the waist. Having had my tea and not being fascinated with the Russian, I sauntered off. I was told afterwards that he is a first cousin to the Czar, is fabulously rich, has an Egyptian museum of his own in Moscow, and for a long time was in the habit of bringing with him to the Nile a new wife each year. Whether at the end of each winter he fed the lady to the crocodiles, or reserved her for Siberia, history does not record.
There is about a ton of brown bread cut in slices spread out to dry on the deck at the stern. It's for the crew. They like it that way. The birds hop joyously all over it, and a cat or two pay thieving visits to it. The crew and inside servants are twenty in number and are so silent it is hard to believe there is one on board. They wear blue sweaters with BEDUIN in red letters across the
8