Sunday. January 26. West Bank at Luxor
Dearest Adeline:- How does that Watts hymn go? "Oh day so calm, so still, so bright" - I don't believe I've got it right and very likely it wasn't Watts who perpetrated it, but anyway "so calm, so still, so bright" describes all our Sundays here (and all other days except when the wind blows). "So still" did not exactly depict the part of the morning when Mr. Whymper was breakfasting with us. He is awfully nice and very amusing - but Dio Mio! what a voice! The whole boat was filled with the sound thereof and I could see Cousin Theodore wilt beneath it. Rarely have I met anyone who dislikes as much as does Charles W. to have anyone else talk, so when he is present there is little respite from that battering sound. I'm beginning to understand why his lawful and wedded doesn't live with him, but resides somewhere in the country in England with the daughter, and occasionally allows Charles to pay them a visit. He and Doris and I rowed over to church together. Our regular incumbent was absent, preaching in the Cathedral at Khartoum, and we had two clerical birds of passage in his place. The sermon, an excellent one, was preached by the Rev. Urquhart Bing Urquhart (isn't that a delicious name?) And the service was read by a little man who looked like an owl but who had a charming voice and read beautifully. In connection with him Mr. Whymper told us such a nice little tale. He - the Rev. Owl (I forget his name) is rector in a little town in England called Dunmow (where General Bing, now commanding all the forces in Egypt, lives when he's at home). And there it has been a custom from time immemorial, to give once a year a whole flitch of bacon to the married couple who on that day can, with their hands upon the altar, swear solemnly that for the preceding year not a single cross word has passed between them! If more than one couple present themselves and take this solemn oath, whichever one can best substantiate the assertion receives the flitch of bacon.
Mr. Tremaine came home to luncheon with us and I'm sure had a very dull time. No - he didn't come with us, he followed later, and the Contessa was to have come with him but had a bad headache and couldn't, and he looked almost dismembered without her. Doris rode over to the diggings at Medinet Habu this afternoon with her donkey boy and a sailor. She and I had a lovely ride yesterday afternoon around by the Ramesseum and home by the Colossi, where we paused and got off to examine the creatures, which we have not done before. When we reached the Beduin we found Mrs. Pier and her two little girls. Those little girls are the very sweetest things I've seen in ages. They were having a heavenly time in our poultry yard as we rode up.
Monday. January 27. 
I foresee that this letter is going to be dull for anyone to read, for I don't seem to be doing anything off the boat just now except society things. (I'm lunching out tomorrow and the next day). I literally did not step off the boat till late this afternoon when Cousin Theodore and I went on the sands for a walk which he thought long and I thought short. We were all to have gone over to the diggings this afternoon, Cousin Emma in her donkey chair and we on our mounts, but just as we were all ready to start Cousin T. said he had a headache and wouldn't go, so I stayed at home with him, and the others went. At teatime they returned in a sort of whirlwind of donkeys and people, having picked up the Contessa and Mr. Tremaine and their outrunners. And at the same time a boat drew up on the other side of the Beduin and deposited a very charming Englishwoman - a Mrs. Graham, whose husband belongs to the Civil Service in Egypt, and who is an old acquaintance of the cousins. Poor Cousin Theodore was reduced almost to a panic, as he always is nowadays by the arrival of people. I admired Mrs. Graham vastly, in spite of an absolutely expressionless way of speaking which I generally find irritating when I meet it. Something quite thrilling was told her by Mr. Tremaine, and she murmured in a perfectly colorless voice "How exciting" as she buried her nose in her teacup.
26