The sailors - our sailors - have been rejoicing this evening, sitting in a circle on the lower deck singing songs that sounded like heathen incantations - all this because Cousin Theodore has given them a sheep for a feast tomorrow. I would like to hear someone sing Heilige Nacht. The glory of the Lord is filling the heavens. There is such moonlight as New England never has known.
Christmas Night, 1912
 - It's rather queer that snow and Yule logs and holly should be so essentially a part of the ideal Christmas to the Anglo-Saxon mind, when of course the real Christmas surroundings are like Doris's and Emily's and mine today - delicious sunshine and warmth, tropical vegetation, arid desert stretches. Just for today I would gladly have exchanged all this for the snow and the Yule log and Home. We had our presents before and at breakfast, and when the dining room table was cleared the ceremony of giving the crew and inside servants (there are 23 of these, mostly Nubians) their Christmas, took place. Cousin Theodore and Cousin Emma sat at the table, Doris and I on the divan, and Jones was master of ceremonies. They came in one by one, kissed our hands, said "Kulle sana w'uita taiyib" (a Happy New Year to you), each received a white shawl, a box of cigarettes, a bag of nuts and candy and some money. When it was over with they gathered on the deck and shouted "Hip, hip, hip, Hooray! Tank you, tank you, tank you!" And the rest of us washed our hands in dioxygen.
Doris and Emily and I went to the little white stucco English church, which stands at the back of the Luxor Hotel gardens, walking among palms and acacias and other lovely things to get to it, and arriving in time to see an Arab give the final vigorous rings to the outside bell. The church was trimmed with palms and poinsettias, and of course there was the dear old service and the joyful Christmas hymns, and a quite unusual thrill at the prayer for "The President of the United States" even though he was tacked on at the tail end of the Royal Family.


Doris and I brought Harry Burton and Mr. Crane back in the felucca to have luncheon with us, and the Beduin looked more that ordinarily beautiful in her gala dress of many flags.
Mr. Crane is an artist and son of the better known Walter Crane, a very nice fellow and with a decided sense of humor, though not as constantly as amusing as Harry Burton. We had a gay luncheon, and when the young men had departed for the other side of the river, Doris and I were free to read our fine crop of letters, and we did it with a ravenous appetite. At four the Sea& with all her flags flying steamed up near us and her felucca brought over I\r. and Mrs. Tuck, Major Curley, _Miss Nelson and Emily - and you can all of you easily imagine what it meant to Doris and me to have even an hour of Miss Nelson and Emily. We took the whole party all over the Beduin and they were crazy about it. Then we had tea on deck with the Nile flowing by us on one side and our splendid plain and mountains on the other and sunshine and beauty everywhere. We could not bear to have our guests leave, but they left, and then Cousin Theodore and I took a walk on the sands with the sunset in our faces, and had to hurry back to escape the sudden mists that always arrive at sundown. We found Nicoll, the English artist who paints such exquisite pictures of Egypt, calling on us. I liked him immensely. He was asked to stay to dine, but had a previous engagement. So we four dined alone and had so much to eat before the turkey arrived that he was sent off untouched. But we had to nibble at the plum pudding. I pledged you all in champagne, and later on saw one of the crew dancing a sort of double shuffle with the bottle balanced on his head. It has been a lovely Christmas in its queer way, but Emily and the letters and remembrances from home were far and away the best part of it.
Thursday. December 26. 
The Serapis went on her way to Cairo this morning. It is a very great disappointment to Doris and me that they did not stay long enough for us to do things together - and to Emily and Miss Nelson too. But they are, at present, no more the arbiters of their destinies
15