good-looking husband asked for me. They were Mr. and Mrs. Packard - she a niece of Mrs. William Farnam, and very like her. They were very rushed, being in Luxor for a few hours only, and I was so sorry not to see more of them.
Thursday. January 30. 
Doris and I had a lovely ride this afternoon. We went first over to the diggings to cheer Harry up a bit. He gets low in his mind if he doesn't see a white person to speak to occasionally. We went by a short cut which Doris loves and I hate because there's a fearsome plunge into a gully which I always descend shrieking "I want to get off - I want to get off! 0 how I loathe this place!" While a sailor holds me on and Malimond says in that heavenly voice of his "Don' be 'fraid Madame!" Yesterday the sailor and I took the plunge in a most lover-like manner, for I was clutching him around the neck and he had his arm around my waist. Harry clamored for us to stay, but we had a hankering to go somewhere we had not been before, so after a very big visit we continued on our way and finally - or should I say shortly - reached the hollow in the hills where nestles that gem of a temple (small enough for my limited comprehension) Der-el-Medineh. Such lovely carving, such delicious color left in scraps and patches, and peace and remoteness that I said "I would have liked to come here to church". And through a broad opening in the rocks a wide and beautiful view down to the distant Nile, with the stately ruin of the Ramesseum in the foreground. We had only fifteen minutes to spend there, but acquired that haunting desire to return there which is, for me, an Egyptian fever. The splendid looking Arab, guardian of the place, was so overcome by my largesse of seven and a half cents that he knocked Malimond out of the way in order to hold my donkey himself when I mounted. We rode home by our dear Colossi and Doris suddenly left me on a mad gallop to overtake a baby camel she saw in the distance. I finally caught it up without any undue exertion. I don't believe it could have been more than a month old. The maternal camel was not in the least gratified by our attentions and tried to take a bite out of Doris.
Friday, January 31. 
The only thing worthy of record today was tea, by invitation, with the Masperos on their Dahabya Miriam. It's a government boat and so ugly that I should think it would afflict them desperately to have to live on it. However, I come back from every other boat I see freshly impressed with the beauty and perfect order of this one. Sir Gaston was very twinkley this afternoon but did not have the opportunity to launch forth upon one of his marvellous monologues. We rowed home beneath a flight of crimson clouds with the upper reaches of the river rose and violet and the nearer ones fire opal.
Good-bye till another week and so much love to all, whether in Edwards Street, on the dear hilltop, or in Summerville.
Your devoted Mary
Sunday, February 2. West Bank at Luxor
Dear Adeline: - There is such a wild wind from the desert tonight that the Beduin is rocking as she never did during the entire voyage up from Cairo. Always immediately after dinner I come into my room and hang out of my window for a few minutes to look at the stars and the lights of Luxor. Tonight they are veiled in sand. The wind rose in the afternoon. It was calm enough when Doris and I went to church this morning. Upon emerging from the sanctuary I had a little talk with Mr. and Mrs. Waldo Hutchins, Delia Porter’s relatives who are birds of passage through
28