November 21. 1912  Norddeutscher LLoyd - Bremen
Dearest Adeline: - We've just passed Flores in the Azores where Sir Richard Grenfell lay, but in such thick weather that we only had misty glimpses of splendid crags towering up from the water, their tops hidden in cloud, and one white village on a cape-like projection. We'll have to go very close to the other Azores if we are to see them at all in this rain and fog laden atmosphere. But at least it's smooth. Day before yesterday was our one very rough day - only 30 people, out of 200, at breakfast; I, of course, being one of the 30. But even I would have liked to lie on my bed and howl all day with indefinable and baseless misery. The Atlantic Ocean is the one thing in all this wonderful world that could bore me to death. Even the luxuries with which we are surrounded, and everybody kowtowing, from the Captain who looks like Santa Claus to the least of the stewards, only slightly mitigates my mental ennui.
Yesterday in search of distraction I went to the "Beauty Parlor" and had everything I could think of done to me, then went forth to shock my family with my new and fatal beauty. As a lurch of the ship shot me into their midst in our salon (we have a salon of our own) I forestalled comment by announcing loudly "My eyebrows are pencilled and my lips rouged". I was so amazed at the comments of the masseuse when she was working over me. Through a slit in my eyelids I observed her stealthily approaching with the eyebrow pencil, and demurred feebly "I never do that sort of thing", to which she replied with gentle decision, "You should alvays - you are not haf many eyebrow". I must say I was much pleased with my looks when she had finished, and am beginning to understand how women become fools in their old age and take to making up.
One of my pleasures has been the daily reading of my precious missive, and I was so much touched by the message from you and Augustus. I never knew you and he felt that way about me - I thought that feeling was all on my side - so it's made me very happy. I meant to mail this at Gibraltar but Cousin T. says it isn't safe to mail anything at Gibraltar as it sometimes takes months for things to leave there. Doris is a great help and Cousin T. seems perfectly devoted to her - even prefers her to me, I think. Isn't it lovely! Another dream come true.
Friday. November 22. 
I found that today's message was from Mr. Theodore Blake, with a plea for "an occasional encyclical" so I'm going to ask you to pass on all my letters to him and Mrs. Blake. You see, you pampered darling, I mean to write frequently and fully to you, so frequently and fully that I very much doubt if any of my other New Haven friends get anything but postals from me.
Last night at dinner the band played Dixie and a man sitting at a table near us, a man who looked like a gentleman, suddenly gave the most appalling shout, and another and another. I never in my life had heard the Rebel Yell, but I recognized it on the instant. Last winter in South Carolina I said more than once, and really believed it, that I knew just how the southerners felt and that they had my full and understanding sympathy. But last night with that hideous sound in my ears I suddenly saw red and there was murder in what I had humbly hoped was a tender and a Christian heart! It's really rather ghastly to abruptly discover how much of the savage is still left in one's make-up.
After dinner, in the smoking room whither Doris and I always accompany Cousin T., we heard people saying something about an island, and from the windows we saw one more Azore - a huge black mass heaved up against an almost equally black sky, with here and there a light twinkling near the water's edge. That smoking room is one of the nicest places in the ship to sit. It's on the
1