imagined bordered the Nile on both sides of its entire length. Also we've had clouds and two or three dashes of rain and strong winds that have blown the sand till the air has been full of a foglike mist.
And now I really must write to my mother and my son, and a few other persons who will stop loving me if I don't. This will be posted at Asyut tomorrow, and unless something particularly interesting happens I shall add no more to this edition. Except always my faithful love to my dear DuBois, Blake and Mitchell friends.

MBN
Tuesday, December 17.
The Beduin on the Nile, somewhere near Abutig and about 260 miles south of Cairo.
Dearest Adeline: - I'm not going to treat you to the best writing paper every time. If I used it all up on my personal correspondence I might cease to be persona grata on the Beduin. But this is the Royal Cambrian Writing Pad, which sounds as though it ought to suit the most exacting.
We did not get to Asyut until one today, but our last hour of daylight yesterday was one never to be forgotten. For at least an hour we were skimming past the base of giant cliffs rising sheer from the river - the wonderful Gebel Abu Feda. Really cafe-au-lait in color they were glowing with tints of unearthly beauty caught from the orange and rose sunset going on across the river. Their jagged summits cut into a sky of such ecstatic blue that it made my throat contract. (Perfect color does that to me.) And high above the mast rode a silver half moon. Never before have I seen a really silver moon.
We reached Asyut at luncheon time. Doris and I bolted that meal in haste and went ashore with Haneen as bodyguard, to take a drive through the town. We had to land in the felucca, and it was very pleasant being rowed by six Arabs handling their oars with a man-of-war's precision. We drew up at the bottom of a steep bank done in rough masonry and by means of a mariner at each elbow and my own active strides I was wafted to the top like a withered leaf. (It is my regard for the Eternal Fitness of Things that made me say withered leaf instead of lotus flower, as I wanted to.) In a rickety victoria with a wooly yellow mat seething with fleas under our feet, and Haneen perched beside the driver, who wore his turban at a rakish angle acquired only by the few, and who shouted every foot of the way to clear the road, we proceeded through the bazaar and the market. The bazaar was like Cairo, only not nearly so interesting, but the market (it was market day) was more than worth seeing. A mass of people, bulls, camels, donkeys in a dust trodden space with walls on three sides and the fourth open to heavenly green fields, and an imposing mountain in the background with an ancient burying ground and the ruins of the old city at its foot.
Asyut is a prosperous and wealthy town, with many pretentious houses owned by rich natives, and some charming bungalows evidently inhabited by English people. The one other flaw, besides the yellow mat, to our expedition was the way the driver lashed the horses. "Haneen, make him stop whipping his horses." A word from Haneen which took effect for a minute and a half. "Haneen, tell him not to beat his horses." A minute of respite. "Haneen, it displeases me to have the horses beaten. Make him stop." Fierce remarks in the vernacular from Haneen, five minutes peace, then the wallopings were resumed and I gave up. You might have an apoplexy or burst a blood vessel trying to prevent it, and all in vain. The Beduin had moved up stream and the water
11