We passed Kasr-es-Saiyad ("the Hunter's Castle") today and saw an amazing sight. What well might have been a castle was a pigeon house and nothing else. Hundreds of thousands of pigeons were perched upon its battlements, wheeling over it, swooping about it, while fresh flocks were hurrying towards it from all directions. Opposite Kasr-es-Saiyad lies Hon, the home of Sheikh Seline who died a few years ago after sitting stark naked on the banks of the Nile for 53 years. They have built his tomb on the sacred spot and the natives make pilgrimages to it.
We expect to reach Luxor tomorrow and I shall begin a fresh letter there. It will be good to get letters. Ten days without mail is a long while.
Adios, my dears all, and Heaven bless you.
Devotedly,
Mary
Christmas Eve. 1912. Dahabya Beduin
Luxor, Egypt
"By the fertile stream
Where, in Egyptian Thebes, the heaps of precious ingots gleam, The hundred-gated Thebes, where twice ten score in martial state Of valiant men with steeds and cars
March through each massy gate."

Don't you love that, Adeline? And to think that I am here! I cannot get used to the wonder of that. We reached here at noon on Saturday, a day like all our days - soaked in sunshine. We slipped "past garden wall and gallery" with glimpses of those lovely columns of the Temple of Luxor in between; past the Winter Palace, and then diagonally across the river to our mooring place on the west bank. We have it all to ourselves because most people prefer to herd in the thick of things on the east bank with their noses bumping each other's tails, until there isn't an inch left in which to tie a boat. So we are sole owners at present of a wide and lovely beach, back of which stretches a wondrous plain of strips of burning sand and strips of brilliant green and lines of trees, and back of all the glaring fiercely beautiful Libyan mountains where our valley lies. We made an encampment with the dahabya, a tent for the sailors, a lot of stylish yellow poles to which the clothes lines are attached, and two luxurious yellow coops into which the poultry farm is shoved at sunset. It was too amusing when the small coops were first lifted off the Beduin onto the sand and opened. Sir Francis Drake and his three ladies waddled madly for the edge of the bank, slid down it on their tails and hurled themselves into the water. The turkeys were so stiff they could hardly stand at first, but in less than five minutes the gobbler was strutting and rustling and gobbling as though he owned Upper Egypt, including the Sudan, while the hen turkey was busily superintending one of the crew polishing copper pots with sand. To see the white cock stepping jauntily about no one would have imagined him to be a heart-broken widower, all his wives having been eaten on the way up. Perhaps he foresaw that he would have three more in about an hour and a half. At luncheon the mail was brought from across the river, our first in 10 days, and we buried ourselves in letters. There was a dear one from you, Adeline. The afternoon waned in perfect beauty, of which I recked nothing, having suddenly gone to bed with a fiendish attack of neuralgia in my face. It passed after four or five hours and I slept like an infant and woke up Sunday morning very fit indeed and wishing greatly to go to the English Church at
13