victim no chance of escape if he happens to be sitting by the window, as this one was. We had a delightful half or three-quarters of an hour with him while he tore up and down his room and ranted with a pipe in his mouth and a checked cap on his head (except when he periodically remembered and took it off only to clap it on again in a fit of abstraction). He mimicked people looking at pictures, and birds in their native haunts till you could see the latter quite as distinctly as the former. And he showed us some lovely things he had painted. One gem of Medamet is tearing me to pieces. Its price is just the sum of a check Mrs. Thompson gave me for Christmas, but a conflict rages in my "buzzum" because I had determined to buy with it some piece of jewelry, and I can't make up my mind which could give me the greater and more lasting satisfaction. I have a barbaric fondness for jewels.
This afternoon the donkeys were brought over to this side of the river and we three were to have ridden to Medinet Habu. But the wind blew up and Cousin Theodore wouldn't go and made such a row about Doris and me going that we compromised and I stayed at home.
And now Al Allah for this week, and dear love to you all.
Mary
Sunday night. January19. West Bank, Luxor
Dearest Adeline: - We have with us again the moon silvering the surface of the Nile, turning the desert sands to snow and driving the dogs of Luxor mad. At least I suppose it is the moon. It certainly is not joie de vivre which makes them bark, for the poor things haven't any. But Kim flying up Orange Street frenziedly barking at the victoria containing Mr. Justice$ Hotchkiss (a spectacle Kim always finds intolerable) does not make more of a row than each and every canine dwelling across the river on those nights when "the moon doth with delight look round her."
Doris and I went to church this lovely morning and managed to be late, which was wholly unnecessary as we had been sitting on deck waiting for the time to get into the felucca and be rowed over. Mr. Whymper was also late and came racing after us as we neared the church door, and we all hurried in together without his having a chance to criticize our clothes. "What's this for? And what's the meaning of that? Women wear such rummy clothes!" He observes in an amused voice, usually when he meets us.
When we got back to the Beduin at luncheon time we found a very nice batch of letters from home - yours of the 31st December, Adeline dear, for which so many, many thanks, was one, and another from Susan in Summerville giving unstintingly the hallmark of her approval of Doris and my devotion to that dear place.
About half past four a cavalcade started for the valley. Cousin T., Doris and Jones mounted on their respective donkeys, and my new donkey loaded with luggage and groceries instead of with me. And tomorrow morning that matchless trio of Egyptologists - G. Maspero, T. and D. Newberry - will pass final judgment upon the red granite sarcophagus in the tomb of Siphtah.  Cousin Emma and I heroically remained behind to dispense tea and cakes to some people named Sprague from Buffalo, who had brought letters and whom Cousin T. refused to be bothered with. They brought a young niece, Alice Keatin with them, whom I liked. Mr. Sprague reminded me somewhat of "The Man from home" and he certainly voiced my feelings when he said that in this land he was "completely dazed by the enormous amount of what he didn't know".
23