Tuesday. March 18. 
Going down the Nile.
Dearest Adeline:- This trip down the Nile, to which we looked forward with such keen pleasure, remembering the rapture of the one up, has been a great disappointment because of the incessant and violent winds. Cousin Emma has scarcely been on deck at all. The rest of us have spent much time there, but usually with a growing irritation at being blown off the map, until the point would be reached when one or all of us would leap out of our chairs with an exasperated "I'm going down - this is too much for me." I can't remember whether I finished my last letter Saturday or Sunday. But anyway I did not tell you, did I, about the lovely walk I had just before sunset and just after on Sunday evening? We tied up a little earlier than usual by a lovely bank, and I started out immediately with Amelie and the usual sailors. We took to what Amelie (who knows this country well) called the highroad. It was literally that, being on sort of an embankment with deep ditches on either side. But it was little more than a footpath winding indefinitely through desert stretches, fascinating villages and cultivated fields, and palm trees scattered almost everywhere. It was such a lovely thing to be doing Palm Sunday, and the whole thing looked as I imagine Palestine.
Yesterday nothing particular occurred except our stopping at Minya for mail. Doris and I walked to the post office with Jones and sailors and then to the railroad station, thereby seeing the main part of the town, which is a flourishing one but not interesting. Today we spent four or five hours a little below Shekh Fadl while the tug coaled. We were tied to a high and very dull bank, and in four or five hours even the ducks can cease to amuse.
Wednesday. March 19. 
This has been a day. A hideous wind, as usual. Then early this morning we sat on a sandbank for an hour in company with Cook's large steamers, a small steamer and twenty-seven native boats. We were the first to get off and sail away and I suppose they all hated us. For the rest of the day we've played tag with the Arabia and the Rameses III (the two big Cook steamers). They would pass us haughtily, then around a bend in the river we'd find them stuck again and we'd sail by. I don't know how many times that happened. And once when we came upon them stranded and our tug went aground on the same bar for a few minutes, in its frantic struggles to get free it rammed the Rameses, which must have annoyed that monarch greatly. We are tied up tonight about thirty miles from Cairo and a new hat. I hunger and thirst for a new hat. There are no words to express the fatigue that takes possession of me when I don one of my two sun-burned, faded, pinned out, dilapidated head coverings. We are to continue living on the boat for about a week before moving to the Ghezireh Palace. It is with a pang that we have today lost sight of the desert, on the edge of which for three months we have lived in a highly civilized and luxurious way - minus, of course, two things that are supposed to go with civilization now. We've not seen a motorcar since leaving Cairo and we couldn't have telephoned anywhere to save our lives!
Thursday. March 20. - Cairo. 
We started a little before six this morning and were lucky enough to make the bridge just before it closed after the morning opening. If we'd been ten minutes later we would not have got through until afternoon. The wind kept on with unabated zeal but we found the entrance into the city's environs very interesting. I wonder if custom could stale for me the interest, ever. Our tying up place looks perfectly charming -it's the beauty spot of the bank. Not being here to superintend the planting ourselves, our gardener has got that mixture of everything - purple and red and pink - that the Oriental loves, but the effect is gay and springlike,
45