nature. This afternoon Cousin T., Doris and I took a long ride through larger tracts of cultivated land than we had previously seen. Steam ploughs were at work and the irrigating ditches were cemented and it all looked very modern and progressive and much less interesting and picturesque.
Monday. January 6. 
This has been a lovely day (of course) but not an eventful one. Doris and I went over to Luxor in the morning and I had	- with comforting results - to my neuralgic scalp. Then I sat for a little while on the sunny rear terrace of the Winter Palace and talked to Mr. and Mrs. Davenport of Lincoln, Mass., while Doris was talking to some English people on the front terrace. I stayed at home in the afternoon and tried to prolong the life of my stockings, until I had to cram them all into my mending bag on the advent of Baron and Baroness von Bissing and Dr. Hermann Kees for tea. They came along the sands from their dahabya Aziz, which is lying below us on the same side of the river. The Baroness is quite charming and speaks English beautifully. The Baron is a sort of German translation of Leonard Bacon. He pounces on your hand and kisses it, is never still a minute, talks excitedly and amusingly, is immensely clever, gulps down cup after cup of tea and bolts his food with the rapidity of chain lightning. Dr. Kees may be and probably is possessed of vast learning, but he is afraid to speak English which he evidently understands, and his appearance is all that there is of callowness - he looks as though "de eggshell not yet off is back".
Wednesday, January 8. 
Yesterday was a day too crowded for any epistolary efforts on my part. It began immediately after breakfast with a call from a sailing dahabya which, from lack of wind, had paused just above us. Its occupants, a Mr. and Mrs. Lawrence and a Mr. and Mrs. Pope, were crazy to meet Cousin Theodore, so they called. We liked them. They were very "plain Americans" from Ohio, and took liberties with our mother tongue, but they were awfully nice. Mr. Pope explained to me apologetically that he knew nothing whatever about Egyptian things as he "never had been a historian". When they had departed we, all four, went across the river in the felucca, the others stopping at Mr. Nicolls' dahabya to see his lovely pictures, and I going on to Luxor for a fitting of a blouse which is being made for me by a person who advertises herself as "Ancient dressmaker to the Queen of Holland".
Harry Burton came over from the valley and lunched with us and in the afternoon we all proceeded to Medinet Habu to gaze upon the site where Cousin T. means to dig next. The others rode, but Cousin Emma and I drove in a sand cart, a low hung, one-seated, two-wheeled cart, the tires of the wheels being as broad as those of a motor car. A white mule was our steed, I held the reins, and the driver and one of our sailors careered along beside us. I thought it was fun. Cousin Emma thought it was awful, and vowed that never again would she get into that kind of vehicle.
It is the Coptic ruins adjoining Medinet Habu that we mean to excavate, and while we were wandering about the appalling masses of debris a strong wind sprang up, and we got a taste of what a sandstorm can be like. We made a frantic dash for home, and through a misunderstanding Doris got left behind, and when I discovered it I had five thousand fits. When we reached the dahabya Jones' stern inquiry "Where is Miss Doris?" was the final straw. I'm afraid my voice rose almost to a shriek as I said "Nobi wouldn't dare not to take care of her!" (Nobi is her donkey boy.) A sailor was instantly dispatched on a steed and Doris says he nearly rent Nobi limb from limb when he finally met them, and it was in no way poor Nobi's fault.
Baths and evening clothes restored our poise, and Doris and I made our first plunge into Luxor society. Mr. and Mrs. Garret Pier, fascinating Americans stopping at the Winter Palace, had invited us to dine and stay for a dance. And what an entrancing way to go to dinner! We stepped
19