wreck of a world. On and on we drove through towering cliffs and amid a titanic chaos of broken flints and splintered rock and fossil shells, with not even the memory of a green growing thing for miles upon miles. And then we came to a fork in the valley with a jutting ridge, a mighty one between, and to the left goes the Valley of the Tombs of the Kings and to the right the West Valley where Cousin Theodore's house is. It is a long, low and plastered structure with a flat roof, like thousands in Mexico. The dining room is at the front end and the sitting room at the far end, and between the two runs a hall with four anchorites' cells for bedrooms opening off it. Rough cement floors, rough plastered walls with little slits of windows in the foot-and-a-half thick walls.


When we drew up in front of this residence slaves dashed out and kissed our hands and did our boots with a feather duster. The rest of the party were hot on our heels. Julius Caesar (Cousin Theodore's donkey - and a perfect devil) braying his head off. He so loves the sound of his own voice that he brays all the time. Then we entered and took possession, Harry Burton doing the honors. As Cousin Theodore's Manager of Excavations he lives in the House in the Valley. He'd given up his room to me. "It may smell of disinfectant, but it's all right - it doesn't mean anything except that the last chap died here, you know", he explained. A short time before we arrived they had killed a five foot snake by the great water jars in the shed near the front door, and Doris found a deceased mouse in her wash basin. So I felt rather squeamish when I entered my cell after dark and wondered what I might possibly touch before I got the candles lighted; therefore when the whole box of matches flared off at once in my hand I most naturally shrieked. The nights were wonderful, the stars blazed so close you could almost pick them from the velvet sky, the silence surpassed anything I've ever known - no faintest shadow of a sound except when a sudden gust of wind swept past, and was utterly gone, like the moan of a wild beast. And all night long a guard with a rifle stood at the front corner of the house to ward off any wandering sons of the desert who might drop into the valley by the jackal trails leading over the cliffs.
The next morning we had a sort of royal progress into the valley of the Tombs - Cousin Theodore on the vociferating Julius, Cousin Emma in a carrying chair with two bearers, Doris and Jones and I on foot. That morning was one of the sensations of Doris's and my lives, but I won't bore you with descriptions, for is it not all written in the Books of Belzoni, Weigall, Budge, Dans, Petrie and others? Aside from all the wonder and beauty and impressiveness that we saw there was the fun of sailing by groups of staring tourists into a place labelled largely "No Admittance" and entering the tomb of Siphtah where Cousin T. is doing the only excavating at present going on in the valley. It was very dusty and very dark except in flashes where the light was thrown in by a mirror at the mouth. And a procession of children were carrying out the debris in baskets. The thing I hate in this country is the way they work the children. At Karnak overseers stand by with long-lashed whips, but our overseer is not permitted a whip. That afternoon I took a walk by myself, climbing a ridge and going down into a third valley and up another ridge. The sun had set and the silence was dreadful, and suddenly a horror of the desert (quite different from ordinary fear) seized me and I fled back to the house, where I was seriously taken to task for wandering about by myself. Sunday afternoon Cousin T., Doris and I made an expedition up our own west valley, and anything more superb, austere and overpowering I think I've never seen. Two or three of the Kings elected to be buried there, and I wonder all of them didn't; it's so much more spectacular and imperial than the other valley.
Monday morning immediately after breakfast Cousin Emma and I departed, the others reluctantly promising to follow the next day. And wasn't it good to get back to the Beduin and bath tubs and clean clothes, and the haunting river with its palm trees and gardens on the Luxor side, and the desert all the more beautiful for being retired to the background.
17