# pages 4-42
Norddeutscher LLoyd - Bremen Dearest Adeline: - We've
Norddeutsche Lloyd - Bromo  Dearest Adeline  : Wave 

just passed Flores in the Azores where Sir Richard Grenfell lay, but in such
just passed Flores in the Azores Where Sir Richard Grenfell lay  but in such

thick weather that we only had misty glimpses of splendid crags towering up
thick weather that we only had mist  clumpses of splendid crags towering up

from the water,   their tops hidden in cloud,   and one white  village on a
from the water  , their tops hidden in cloud  , and one whites village on a

cape-like projection. We'll have to   go    very close to  the    other Azores
cape      -           like  80   Very CLOSE TO   THE   ONE ARCHES I     Hope  

if we are to see them at  all in this   rain and fog laden atmosphere.   But
          to see What are     in health      and to  laden atmosphere  . But

at least it's smooth. Day before yesterday was our one very rough day - only
at least it's smooth  Day before yesterday was our and very rough day - only

30 people, out of 200,   at breakfast; I, of course, being one of the 30.  
30             of course .                           being one of the 30  .

But even I would have liked to lie on my bed and howl all day with indefinable
But even I would have liked to Me  on my bed and bout al  of  with indefinable

and baseless misery. The Atlantic Ocean is  the one thing in all this
and boneless misery  the Atlantic ocean his     one thing in all this

wonderful world that       could bore me to death. Even the luxuries with
wonderful world surrounded ,                                             

which we are surrounded, and everybody kowtowing, from the Captain who looks
                         and everybody kowtowing  from the Captain who looks

like Santa Claus to the least of the stewards, only slightly mitigates my
like Santa Claus to the least of the stowards  only slightly mileales  my

mental ennui. Yesterday in search of distraction I went to the "Beauty Parlor"
mental cas    esterday  in search of distraction I went to the "       Beauty 

         and had everything I could think of done to me,   then went forth to
Parlor " and had everything I could think of done to me  , then went forth to

shock my family with my new and fatal beauty.   As a lurch of the ship shot me
shock my family with my new and fatal beauty  , As a lurch of the ship shot me

into their midst in our salon (we    have a salon of our own) I forestalled
into their midst in our salon (   we have a salon of our own  I forestalled

comment by announcing loudly "My eyebrows are pencilled and my lips rouged".  
comment by announcing loudly My  eyebrows arc penciled  and my lips rouged   "

  I was so amazed at the comments of the masseuse when she was working over
. I was so amazed at the comments of the masseuse when she was working over

me. Through a slit in my eyelids I observed her stealthily approaching with
the Through a sit  in my eyelids   observed her stealthily approaching with

the eyebrow pencil,   and demurred feebly "I   never do that sort of thing",  
the cychrow pencil  , and demurred feebly "  I never do that sort of thing   "

to which she replied with gentle decision, "You     should alvays - you are
to which she replied with gentle decision  "    You should always   you are

not haf many eyebrow".     I must say I was much pleased with my looks when
not hat many eyebrow   , " I must say I was much pleased with my looks when

she had finished,   and am beginning to understand how women become fools in
she had finished  , and am beginning to understand how women tocome fools in

their old age and take to making up. One of my pleasures has been the daily
their old age and take to making up  One of my pleasures has been the daily

reading of my precious missive,   and I was so much touched by the message
reading of my precious missive  , and I was so much Washed  by the message

from you and Augustus.   I never knew you and he felt that way about me - I
from you and Augustus  . I never knew you and he felt that way about me    

thought that feeling was all on my side - so it's made me      very happy.   I
thought that feeling was al  on my side - so it's made me work very happy  . I

meant to mail this at Gibraltar but Cousin T. says it isn't safe to mail 
meant to mail this at sin       I             says it isn't safe to would

anything at Gibraltar as it sometimes takes months for things to leave there.
anything at Gibraltar as it sometimes takes months for things to leave there 

Doris is a great help and Cousin T. seems        perfectly devoted to her -
Divis is a groat help and Cousin T  .     soonis perfectly devoted to her  

even prefers her to me,   I think. Isn't it lovely! Another dream come true.
even prefers her to me  , I think  Isn't it lovely  Another dream come true 

Friday.        November 22. I found that today's message was from Mr.  
.       friday November 22  I found that today's message was from Mr  .

Theodore Blake,   with a plea for "an occasional encyclical"   so I'm going to
Theodore Blake  , with a plea for an  occasional encyclical  " so I'm going to

ask you to pass on all my  letters to him and Mrs. Blake. You see, you
ask you to pass on all ray letters to him and Mrs  Blake  You see  you

pampered darling,   I mean  to write frequently and fully to you,   so
pampered darling  , I thead to write frequently and fuly  to you  , so

frequently and fully that I very much doubt if any of my other New Haven 
frequently and fully that I very much doubt if any of my other New Ilaven

friends get anything but postals  from me. Last night at dinner the band
friends get anything but pristals          Last night at dinner the band

played Dixie and a man sitting at a table near us, a man who looked like a
played Dixie and a man sitting at a table near us  a man who looked like a

gentleman,   suddenly gave the most appalling shout, and another and another.
gentleman  , suddenly gave the most appalling shout  and another and another 

  I never in my life had heard the Rebel Yell, but I recognized it on the
. I never in my life had heard the Rebel Yell  but I recognized it on the

instant.   Last winter in South Carolina I said more than once,   and really
instant  . Last winter in South Carolina ) said more than once  , and really

believed it, that I knew just how the southerners felt and that they had my
believed it  that I knew just how the Southerners fell and that they had my

full and understanding sympathy.   But last night with that hideous sound in
full and understanding sympathy  . But last night with that hideous sound in

my ears I suddenly saw red and there was murder in what I had humbly hoped was
my cars ) uddenly  saw red and there was murder in what I had humbly hoped was

a tender and a Christian heart! It's really rather ghastly to abruptly
a tender and a Christian heart! It's really rather ghastly to abruptly

discover how much of the savage is still left in one's make-up.    After
discover how much of the savage is still left in one's make     up After

dinner, in the smoking room whither Doris and I always accompany Cousin T.,  
dinner  in the smoking room while   Doris and I always accompany Cousin T   .

we heard people saying something about an island,   and from the windows we
we heard people saying something about an island  , and from the windows we

saw one more Azore - a huge black mass heaved up against an almost equally
saw one more Azore - a huge black mass heated up against an almost equally

black sky, with here and there a light twinkling        near the water's edge.
black shy  with here and there a light (         winkdi near the water's edge 

That smoking room is one of the nicest places in the ship to sit.   It's on
That smoking room is one of the nicest places in the ship to sit  . It's on

the 1
the  

upper deck and very airy. The only trouble with it is that Teutonic taste in
upper deck and very airy  The only trouble with it is that Teutonic taste in

decoration has been allowed to run riot. There are curious black splotches in
decoration has been allowed to run riot  There are curious black splotches it

raised groups on the walls, which look like symmetrical triplets of
raised        on the walls  which look like youmention  triplets of

cockroaches, and occupying the place of honor is Venus rising from the waves,
cockroaches  and occupying he  place of honor s  Venus hang   from the waves 

all done in low relief in brass. Venus is knock-kneed      and bumpy in
all done in low relief in brass  Venus is knock       hood and bumpy in

outline, and the builders, with probably unconscious humor,   have put in a
outline  and the builders  with probably unconscious humor  , have put in a

fireplace beneath her. We've been sliding along today with as little motion as
fireplace beneath her  We've bee  Hiding  along today with as While  motion as

though we were motoring on a perfect road. Sunday, November 24. The
though we were motoring on a perfect to    Sunday  November 24  The

enchantment has begun.   We awoke to a glorious day, with the magic coast of
enchantment has begun  . We awoke to a glorious day  with the magic coast of

Spain       slipping by us. For the most part desolate and bare, it still
s     paint slipping by us  For the most part desnate  and have  it still

looked so lovely in the morning sunshine that even the lonely watchtowers
looked so love   in the morning sunshine that even the lonely water      

       scattered in a broken line high upon the cliffs  seemed desirable and
towers scattered in a broken line high upon the clift's seemed desirable and

romantic places of residence. At noon Algaciras -the     white city of a dream
romantic places of residence  At noon Againas   -    the white city of a      

- drifted into view,   and there suddenly before us was Gibraltar, splendid,
  drifted into view  , and there suddenly before us was Gibraltar  ,        

smiling, grim.                The cousins have been      here so often they no
splendid ,     smiling , with The cousins have toon hoon here so often they no

longer care to go ashore, (though I can't imagine living long enough to tire
longer care to go ashore  though  I can't imagine fire   of          to )   

of it), so Doris and I went under the convoy of the peerless Jones. He is
,       so Doris and I we   der   the convoy of the poorless Jones  .  1 

certainly            the most  amazing man servant I     ever heard of. To 
10        Is wellwhy the whose amelie  wal s       plane over board of  the

all his other innumerable abilities he  adds those of a first class guide.  
al  has other comparable  holds     his adds those of a first class guide  .

On the dock there was the usual foreign babel,   the only   silent thing being
On the dock there was the usual foreign babel  , the only's        thing being

a huge and stately Moor who strode silently and indifferently past everything
a huge and stately Moor who strode silently and indiferently  past every     

     and everyone. Waiting beyond the wharf were dozens of little yellow
bing and Be        Waiting beyond the what  were dozens of little yellow

carriages with canopy tops and scant curtains - a cross between birdcages
carriages with canopy tops and                  a cross between bird     

      and sedan chairs - drawn by sturdy, nice little horses. Into       
cages and sedan chairs - drawn by sturdy  ,    rice   liftic  horses toto

these vehicles everybody got and in a long line we scampered into the town. It
these vehicles everybody got and in a long line we scampered into the town  In

looked perfectly absurd. It's impossible for me to describe the striking
low    facili    absurd  It's impossible for me to describe the writing 

beauty, the strangeness, the fascination of that unique place, so arid and yet
beout   the avenueon     the Beingtion   of that unique place  ,              

so tropical, - blank glaring stretches of wall and sudden vivid little hanging
so ard                                             sudden vivid little hanging

gardens - morning glories, poinsettias, clematis, bougainvillias (can't
gardens - morning glories  poinsettias  ,         clematis       ,     

                     spell it): narrow and precipitous streets shut in between
bougainvilleas ( can spell it   narrow and precipitous streets shut in between

high walls - looking up them you see gorgeous patches of    blue sky, looking
high walls - looking up them you see Car      fu      below ,                

down - far, far below, - a sea with ships.   Gay groups of people, Spanish,
     -                   a sea with ships  . Gay groups of for     and     

English, red   coats by the hundred, a   fine military band playing in the
city     buses are      the waiting  for is   not      to                 

Parade, the beautiful Public Gardens with the Spanish cedars that give me a
            beautiful Public Gardens with the Spanish cedars what give me a

feeling of delight I cannot put into words;                                   
locking of achie     cannot put into beautiful Public Gardens with the Spanish

      and towering above all the grand summit of the Rock. When we had driven
co Is and towering above all the grand summit of the Rock  then we had driven

up and up we  took to our feet and, escorted by Tommy Atkins,   we walked up
up and up the book to our feet and  escorted by Tommy Ackins  , we walked If

and up along a rockhewn       path through a padlocked gate,   which was
end up along a lock     hewas path through a padlocked gate  , which was

carefully locked behind us, and into those wonderful galleries honeycombing
carefully locked behind     and into those wonderful galleries honeycombing

the Rock and made by General Eliott and his  men in those three besieged
the Rack and made by General Eliot  and file men in those three besieged

years. They show visitors only a very few of them. The only light comes from
years  They show visitors only a very few of them  The only light comes from

the loopholes where the guns look out.   And crouching to look out of one of
the loopholes where the guns look out  . And crouching to look out of one of

these loopholes down on that strange little narrow strip of sand - the Neutral
these loopholes luan on that strange little narrow strip of sand - the Neutral

Ground - one of the ship's passengers standing near  asked the silliest
Ground - one of the ship's Passengers standing lieat asked the silliest

question I ever heard. The guns of Spain were facing her; above, below, on   
question I ever heard  The guns of Spain were facing her  above  below  ,  or

either side,   behind her, the mighty guns of England stood watching Spain.
either side  , behind her  the mighty guns of England stood watching Spain 

"And     what keeps it neutral ground?"     said she. "What      is there to
.    And what keeps it neutral ground   ? " said she  "     What is Were  to

prevent anyone's coming and taking it?   Is it a sort of spiritual compact?"  
prevent anyone's coming and king   it  ? Is it a sort of spiritual compact   ?

Doris and I would have liked to spend a week there, but we thanked high Heaven
Doris and I would have liked to spend a wook there      we thanked high leaves

for even three hours. And when we came back to the ship we watched the
for even three hours  And when we came back to the ship we watched the

crowning beauties of the perfect day. Back of Algeciras rose the full moon. A
crowning beauties of the perfect day  Back of Algecicas rose the full moon  A

snowy white steamer lying near us,   glittering with lights, slid away into
snowy white steamer lying near us  , glittering with lights  slid away into

the Mediterranean,   and as she went,   from the crest of the Rock a flame
the Mediterranean  , and as she went  , from the crest of the Rock a flame

shot out, a puff of smoke and the boom of a salute.   Along the waterfront,
shot out    puff of smoke and the boom of a salute  . Along the waterfront 

the piers, the breakwater, long lines of lights appeared and suddenly
the piers  the breakwater  long lines of ficus  appeared and suddenly

Gibraltar was sparkling as if with jewels. Then we were off into the
Gibraltar was sparkling as if with jewels  Then we were off into the

Mediterranean and as we rounded the point the lights of Gibraltar vanished,  
Mediterranean and as we founded the point the lights of Gibraltar vanished  ,

and there was the    superb, blank, desolate face of the Rock, cold and dark
and there was superb blank          desolate face of the Rock  cold and dark

and mysterious in the moonlight, with one ghostly little sail flitting along
and mysterious in the moonlight  with one ghastly little sail hitting  along

the base. 2
the base   

Tuesday, November 26.   Just a word more.   We are due in Naples tomorrow at
Tuesday  November 26  . Just a word more  . We are due in Naples tomorrow at

the crude hour of six and I've got the most part of my packing still to do and
the crude hour of six and I've got the most part of my packing still to do and

another long letter to write,   and it's evening. The Mediterranean was
another long letter to write  , and it's          The Mediterranean was

perfectly lovely all day yesterday, and the coast of Africa strange and
perfectly lovely all day yesterday  and the coast of Africa strange and

haunting and majestic.   There was snow upon the mountain tops. It was after
haunting and majestic  . There was snow upon the mountain tops  It was after

dark when we reached Algiers and Cousin Theodore wouldn't let Doris and me go
dark when we reached Algiers and Cousin Theodore wouldn't let Doris and me go

ashore even with Jones. "They're           all of them beasts in that town",
ashore even with Jones  ,        " They're all of them beasts in that Iown  

he    said shortly.   So what we saw of Algiers was from the deck, and the
"  be said shortly  . So what we saw of Algiers was from the deck  and the

lights and the tiers upon tiers of   dim white  homes  rising to   the  top   
lights and the tiers upon hill  made a   lovely effect .      It's book choppy

         of the hill  made  a      lovely effect. It's been choppy today and
tod fors of dim while homes rising to     the     lop  of   the    By    and

not quite so clear,   but Sardinia has been with us     most of the time -
not quite so clear  , but Saidicua has been wil  poking                   

looking easily the haunt of bandits.   We are crazy to get to Naples. Two days
        easily the haunt of bandits  . We are crazy to get to Naples      days

there and then we sail again on the 29th for Alexandria. Our love to you and
there and then we sail again on the Zuch for Alexandria                  and

Augustus and to Mr. and Mrs.   Theodore Blake,   to whom this is to go next
Augustus and to Me  and Mrs  . Theodore Blake  , to whom this is to go nest

and then to the dear Mitchells in Summerville, please. Always  your    devoted
and then to the der  Wiener    in Summoning    please  Dessert Adeline        

Mary Saturday. November 30. The Mediterranean. Dearest Adeline: - It was
                                                                  It was

perfectly glorious Wednesday morning when we arrived at Naples. Bumping and
perfectly Glorious Wednesday morning when we arrived at Naples  Bumping and

banging and yelling began so early that even Doris the Dormouse was up and
banging and yelling began so early that even Doris the Dormouse was up and

exclaiming over Vesuvius at six. But our party,   being a slow and stately
exclaiming over Vesuvius at six  But our party  , being a slow and stately

one,   were almost the last   to get off the steamer.   The Grand Hotel had
ong  , were almost the last . to get off the steamer  . The Grand Hotel had

sent a special        carriage for us, and away we drove, unencumbered
sent a special car al carriage for us  and away we drove  ,           

         by anything except a small black bag with jewels,   while Jones and
numbered by anything except a small black bag with jewels  , while Jones and

Amelie looked after the forty odd pieces of luggage. (It      is really forty
Amelia        after the forty odd pieces of luggage  .   ( It is really forty

something in number.)     As we drove along, Doris and I       beaming with
something in number   . ) As we drove done   Dolls and Beaming         with

delight suddenly held up by two leaping, shouting bandits, who turned out to
seven   suddenly held up by two leaping  shouting bands    who turned out to

be Harry Burton,   the delightful young Englishman who goes with us to Egypt,
be larry Burton  , the delightful young Englishman who goes with us to Exempt

and my dear Jim Whittaker,   who had come all the way from Florence (a  
an  my dear Jim Whittaker  , who had come all the way from Florence (  a

twelve hour journey)   just to meet us. The Grand Hotel is a perfect place to
twelve hour journey  ) just    meet us  The Grand Hotel is a perfect place to

stay, being directly on the bay with the most heavenly views  in all
stay  being directly on the bay with the most evenly   view's in all

directions,   and soldiers always drilling in the daytime,   and wandering
directions  , and soldiers always drilling in the daytime  , and wandering

minstrels always singing by night in the street outside. Cousin Emma  
minstrels always singing by night in the street outside  Cousin Famous

declined to drive that A.M., so   Cousin T.,   Doris and Harry went off in one
declined to drive that A     .  M Cousin I   , Doris and Harry went off in one

carriage and Jim and I in another,   and climbed and climbed among reddening
carriage and Jim and I in another  , and climbed und climbed among reddening

vineyards and stone pines,   and along the mountain road to Pasolippo (don't
Vineyards and stone pines  , and along the mountain road to Pasclipp  (     

      know how it spells itself) with its gorgeous outlook. Jim and I got out
don't know how it spells itself  with its gorgeous outlook  Jim and I got out

and leaned on a stone wall and watched in a field, very far below us,   twelve
and leaned on a one   wall and watched in a field  very far below us  , twelve

mounted buglers prancing about and bugling, apparently to accustom their
mounted buglers prancing about and bugling  apparently to accustom their

horses to the sounds,   the really beautiful sounds they made. That afternoon
horses to the sounds  , the really beautiful sounds they made  That afternoon

we all tea-ed at Bertolini's and when I stepped out on that terrace in the
we all tearsd at Bertolini's and when I stepped out on that terrace in the

skies and saw  the kingdoms of the earth spread out before me I almost died of
skies and when the kingdom  of the cuth  spread out before me   almost died of

the beauty of   it.    Before   starting for Bertolini's, Jim,   Doris and I
the beauty ofit before Starting          for Bertolini's  Tin  , Doris and I

had paid a visit to the Aquarium, which Mr. Agassiz used to tell us was the
had paid a visit in the Aquarium  Mr    .   Agassiz used to tell us was the

finest in the world. It's small enough for one to see all the wonders without
finest in the world  it's small enough for one to see all the wonders without

getting tired to death.   Never have I beheld anything as disgusting as the
setting thed  to death  . Never have I behold anything as disgusting is the

devilfish.   It did what the Atlantic Ocean is powerless to do -    it 
devilfish  . It did why                     is powerless to do lade the

made    me seasick. But I was revived by the antics of a crab that did a skirt
seasick             But I was revived by the antics of a crab that did a skirt

dance for our benefit till we were in hysterics. That evening while the others
dance for our benefic till we were in hysterics  That evening while the others

were playing cards,   Jim and I went to the music room and he sang. If I  
were playing cards  , Jim and I went to the music room and he sang  .  IfI

were young he would have sung  the heart out of me.   He's got a lovely voice
were young he would hay  suing the heart out of me  . He's got a lovely voice

with a quality in it that tears you to pieces. Thursday.   Thanksgiving Day, -
with a quality in it that tears you to piece   Thursday  . Thanksgiving Day  ,

  with nothing to remind us of it except the many, many things we have to be
. with nothing to remind us of it except the many  many things    have to be

thankful for,   - was horrid, cloud and rain and mist blotting out everything.
thankful for  , - was horrid  cloud and rain and mist blotting out everything 

  Jim and Doris and I went to the Museum in the morning and stayed until Doris
. Jim and Duris and I went to the Museum in the morning and stayed until Darts

        announced that she was so 3
a Doits announced that she was so  

tired she was beginning to hate everything. We all thought it was worth
red   she was beginning to hate everything  We all thought it was worth

journeying to Naples simply to see that bronze "Hermes Resting",   found at
journeying to Naples simply to see that bronze Hermes  Resting   " found at

Herculaneum. Yesterday,   another very beautiful day, we    sailed, officially
Herculanou   Yesterday  , another very beautiful day  wiled         officially

at noon but really not till two. The delay was caused by a tragedy.   A poor
at noon but really not till two  The delay was caused by a tragedy  . A poor

sailor or stevedore was killed when some cargo was being lowered into the
sailor or stevedore was kiled  when some cargo was being lowered into the

hold, and we had to wait until the city authorities would let us go. Doris and
hold  and we had to wait until the city authorities would let us go  Doris and

Harry Burton and I stood long on deck as we moved out of that superb harbor,  
Harry Burton and I stood long on deck as we moved out of that superb harbor  ,

and when we had sailed past Capri all the perfect beauty of the unparalleled
and when we had souled past Cupri all the perfect beauty of the unparalleled

coast unrolled before us, its many cities and hamlets lying white in the
chase strolled before us  its many chives and hamlets lying white in the

shadow and pink in the sunlight.   We were almost certain we could pick out
shadow and pink in the sunlight  . We were almost certain we cow   pick out

the spot where "Sits  Amalfi  in      the heat Bathing ever her white feet In
the spot where police areless further for want                               

the tideless summer seas." If only we can take that drive when we come back!  
                              only we can take that drive when we come back  !

We passed Stromboli near midnight,   but it was sleeping so there was nothing
We passed Stromboli near midnight  , but it was sleeping to there was nothing

to see but a huge black cone rising out of the sea. And we were sleeping when
to wee but a huge black cone lising out of the sea  And we were stooping when

we threaded the Straits of Messina. We are very comfortable on this steamer,  
we threaded the Straits of Messing  We are very comfortable on this sleeper  ,

though not as luxurious as on the Berlin. All these German boats feed you to
though                                              German boats feed you to

death. You could stuff till you burst if you were so "disposed". There is
death  You could stutt till you burst if you were in                     

everything on the menus to which the plain American has been accustomed from
everything on the menus to which the plain American has been accustomed from

infancy       (including "corned        beef hache Americaine") as well as
moved   There (including "       corned beef hache Americaine"  as well as

everything you never heard of from "Spitcake"   to "Lobskaus          with
everything you never heard of from Spiceake   " to "         Labskaus with

dilled cucumber". Sunday. December 1. And a mighty indolence is upon me, body
dilled cucumber                       And a mighty indolence is bad  me  back

and mind. My        spectacles are broken and I can't see to read Baedeker’s 
and mind  postacies            are broker and I can't see to read Baedecher's

Egypt,   and rejoice that I can't. There was a sunset last night that steeped
Egypt  , and re                    There was a sunset last night that steped 

our very souls in color.   It filled the heavens, glittering gold in the west
out very souls in color  . It Glled  the heavens  glittering gold in the west

and mother-of-pearl           in the east, while liquid opal shifted and
and mother          -of pearl in the east  while liquid opal shifted and

vanished on the sea. Today it has been a calm sea and delicious warmth and a
vanished or the sea  aday  it has been a calm sea and delicious werth  and a

far dim glimpse of Crete.   Tomorrow it ought to be Alexandria about noon and
for dim glimpse of Crete  . Tomorrow it eight to be Alexandria about noon and

Cairo in time for dinner.   And I hope that when we reach Cairo Doris and I
Cairo in time For dinner  . And I hope that when we reach Cairo Doris and I

will be able to remember that we are puffick ladies and keep from shrieking
will be able to remember that we are putfick ladies and keep from shrieking

with delight. The moment we reached the hotel at Naples I posted 24 letters
with delight  The moment we reached the hotel at Naples I posted 24 letters

and notes I had written on the steamer,   and Heaven  send that they all reach
and notes I had written on the steiner  , and Ileaven send that they all reach

their various destinations. You - all of you who read this - ought to have
their various destinations  You   all of you who read this - ought to have

heard from me before this reaches you.    Dear love from your ever devoted
heard from me before this reaches Tuesday ,                               

Mary Tuesday, December 3. 1912. Shepheard's Hotel Cairo Oh,     Adeline, and
              December 3  1912  Shepheard's Hotel Oh    Adeline ,        and

Oh, Augustus, and Oh,   All You Other Dear People who read this letter - I
Oh  Augustus  and Oh  , All You Other Dear People who read this           

simply love this land to death! Why did I say that Algeciras was "the white
simply love this land to death  Why did I say that Ageciras  was the  white

city of  a dream"? Because I would so much rather have said it about
city ofa d Id                      so much cather have said it about

Alexandria! It       was so perfectly heavenly when 4
News        adna ! I was so perfectly heavenly when  

we landed there yesterday - it was so more than beautiful as we drew near it
We landed there yesterday - it was so more than beautiful as we draw near it

on the sea - it looked like miles of ivory palaces floating on liquid lapis.
on the sea - it looked like miles of ivory palaces floating on liquid lapis 

As we sailed through the narrow entrance into the fine harbor with shipping
As wo sailed through the narrow entrance into the line harbor with shipping

from many and far distant lands all about us, and lovely square-rigged       
from many and far distant lands all about us  and lovely square        negred

sailing craft riding at anchor,   and the Khedive's palace facing us, and
sailing craft riding it anchor  , and the Khedive's palace facing us  and

beautiful masses of color on the wharf where men in fezzes and Turkish
beautiful masses of color on the wharf where men in fezes  and turkish

trousers and gold embroidery, men in turbans and long straight robes of dark
trousers and gold embroidery  men in turbans          straight robes of dark

blue, pale blue, light yellow, orange,          dull brown, soft green, white,
blue  pale blue  light yellow  ,       orange , dull brown  sof  green  white 

black, moved and gesticulated and shouted - the voice of one of our
black  moved and gesticulated and shouted . the voice of one of our

compatriots said, pettishly, near us -  Oh, this harbor is so dull."   I
compatriots said  pentishly  Us   .  Oh ,   this harbor in to soul   " I

wonder why the gods permit people with scales upon their eyes to travel.  
wonder why the gods permit people with scales upon their eyes to travel  .

Through a scene of mad and wholly enchanting confusion we tore to the railroad
Through a scene of had and wholly enchanting confusion we fore to the railroad

station in bumpy little carriages with drivers who shouted enthusiastically
nation  in bumpy little carriages with drivers who shouted enthusiastically

every step of the way. Arrived,   we took possession of two        comfortable
every step of the way  Arrived  , we took possession of Two c live comfortable

compartments reserved in loud red letters for "Davis Pasha", while Jones      
compartments reserved in loud red letters fo  Davis  Pasha   "     While Jonas

and Amelie did the work. They both speak Arabic,   and Jones,   imperative but
and Amelie did the work  They both speak Arabic  , and Jones  , imperative but

courteous, and Amelie,   moving about like a battering-ram     and hissing out
courteous  and Amelie  , moving about like a buttering     ram and hissing out

vicious syllables,   accomplished the impossible.   We were very late in
vicious syllables  , accomplished the impossible  . We were very late in

getting off, but the glories of the evening still make shivers run up and down
selling of   ber the glories of the venting still make shivers run up and down

my spine. Burning red spread half around the horizon.   On the right of us
my spine  Burning red spread hall around the horizon  . On the right of us

feathery pampas grass spread out in vast fields of the Cloth of Gold edging a
feathery pampas grass spread out in vast fields of the Cloth of Gold edging a

lake pale blue like Montana sapphires, and a flight of ducks were silhouetted
lake pale blue like Montana sapphires  and a flight of ducks were silhouetted

in black against it. To the left of us cream colored walls with palm trees
in black against it  To the left of us cream colored walls with palm trees

towering above them, tiny villages        of mud hovels, a fleet of sails
lowering above them  ,    ting     llages of mud novels  a fleet of sails

among the fields where an invisible canal was flowing, tall      figures robed
among the fields where an Invisible canal was flowing  ,    call figures robed

in white standing motionless to watch the train,   the Flight into Egypt
in white standing motionless to watch the train  , the Flight into Egypt

repeated again and again on the high road,   and towering over all the purple
repeated again and again on the high road  , and lowering over all the purple

twilight (at    last I've seen a purple twilight)   with Venus glittering on
twilight (   at last I've seen a purple twilight  ) with Venus glittering on

its edge. We had expected to reach Cairo in time for dinner,   but as it was
its edge  We had expected to rouch Cairo in time for dinner  , but as it was

we dined upon the train, and Doris and I were glad, for never before had we
we dined upon the train  and Doris and I were glad  for never before had we

had a meal where Persian powder was dashed in splotches on the window panes to
had a meal where Persian powder was dashed    splotches on the window panes to

keep the fleas outside.   We were waited upon with cyclonic ardor by two 
keep the leas  ourside  . We were waited upon with cyclonic ardor by five

natives in snowy robes,   red sashes and fezzes. (There       must be some
natives in snowy robes  , red sashes and fazes   (      There must be some

other       plural for that, but I don't know it.)           At the station in
other other plural for that  but I don't know I    know it ) At the station in

Cairo three or four of Cousin Theodore's native servants were waiting to
Cairo three or four of Cousin Theodore's native servants were waiting to

welcome us with kissing of hands and those touchings of the forehead and the
welcome us with kissing of hands and those touchings of the forehead and the

breast that somehow  look so theatrical. At the hotel the manager met us at
breast that someliow look so theatrical  At the hotel the manager met us at

the door and conducted us at once to a gorgeous suite of rooms,   while all
the door and conducted us at once to a gorgeous suite of rooms  , while all

our traveling companions were waiting and writhing at the desk.   All these
our traveling companions were waiting and writhing at the desk  . All these

ostentatious details I give you because it amuses me clear through to my
ostentatious details 1 8    you because it amuses me clear through to my

backbone that we,   the denizens of that tiny apartment in Orange Street the
backbone that we  , the denizens of that tiny apartment in Orange Street the

Despised, should be careering about the earth in Pomp and Circumstance. This
Despised  should be carecring about the earth in Pomp and Circumstance  This

morning while standing on the terrace of Shepheard's waiting for our bright
morning while standing on the terrace of Shepherd's  waiting for our bright

red motor car, Doris and I were fallen upon by two old Colorado friends.  
red motor ta   Doris and I were fallen upon by two old Colorado friends  .

Then we, escorted by Cousin Theodore and Harry Burton, went to the Museum
Then we  escorted by Cousin                                        Museum

where we had  one of the sensations of our lives inspecting the wonders and
where we bind one be the sensations of our lives respecting the wonders and

the beauties of the Theodore M. Davis Room. Also we were taken into the Holy
the beaulies of the Theodore M  Dans  Room  Also we were taken into the Holy

of Holies and presented to Sir Gaston Maspero,   who was most charming.   He
of Holics and presented to Sir Gaston Maspers  , who was most charming  . He

is fat and chuckly and of a great simplicity and sweetness, and wholly
is for and chuckly and of a great simplicity and sweetness  and wholly

delightful.   And he gave us each (Doris and me) a grey and gold permit "de
delightful  . And he gave us each Doris  and me  a grey and gold permit de 

visiter jusqu' du 30 Juin, 1913,      tous les monuments fermes  en enclos de
visiter jusau  du 20 Join  ,     1913 tous les monuments ferries en elclos de

la Haute-Egypte" - besides,           of course,   the freedom of the Museum.
la Haute         . Egypte"  . besides of course  . the freedom of the Museum 

After luncheon, while       the Elders were napping, Harry and Doris and I
After Luncheon  .     While the Elders were napping  Harry and Doris and I

escaped and did the bazaars on foot and saw more queer things in an hour than
escaped and did the bazaar  or foot and saw more queer things in an hour than

in most of our lives put together before. "The crowded streets of the bazaar"
in most of our lives put together before  .    "       The                   

- every chronicler says that,   but henceforth it will call up to my mental
  every chronicles says that  , but henceforth it will call up to my mental

vision a vivid picture instead of the vague impression of old. We were a
vision a world picture instead of the vague impression of old  We were a

little frowned on when we returned,   and it was suggested that we were       
little frowned    when we returned  , and it was suggested that we were p were

probably packed with fleas or worse;   but we were given the benefit of the
probably packed with fleas or worse  , but We were given the benefit of the

doubt and were then swept off to see the Pyramids.   It was a 5
doubt and were the  swept off to see the Pyramids  . It was a  

grey afternoon (we've       not yet seen the sun in Cairo).   And perhaps it
grey afternoon (      we've not yet seen the fun in Cairo   ) And perhaps it

was the absence of the fierce blue background that disappointed me at first.  
was the absence of the force  Five background that disappointed mo at first  .

But when we had  teaed at the Mena House and started home along that wonderful
But when we lind lined at the Mena House and shouted home along that wonderful

road with its endless procession of startling figures of men and beasts and
road with its endless procession of sdueling  figures of men and beasts and

veiled women (I   had an uncanny feeling that we were driving through the Old
veiled women (  I had an uncanny feeling that we were driving through the Old

Testament in a motor car)   - we had only to turn our heads a little to see
Testament in a motor car  ) - we had only to turn our heads a little to see

those strange and splendid monuments against the blood red sky of the sunset.
those strange and splendid monuments against the blood red sky of the sunse  

Wednesday. December 4. Another grey day,   but it doesn't matter in the least.
Wednesday  December 4. Another grey day  , but it doesn't matter in the least 

  Why should it, in a land where everything is a thousand times more
, Why should it  in   land where everything is a thousand times more

enchanting even than you expected it to be?   I had  to stay in the hotel this
enchanting even than you expected it to be  ? I hind to stay in the hotel this

morning doing dull but necessary things while the others went off and amused
morning doing dull but necessary things While the others went off and amused

themselves.   But this afternoon we motored out through that extraordinary
themselves  . But this afternoon we moloved out through that extraordinary

new  suburb Heliopolis,   the perpetration of a German Syndicate drunk with
news suburb Heliopolis  , the perpetration of a German Syndicate drunk with

power - and out into the desert until it was easy to believe that there was
power . and out isle the desert until it was easy to believe that there was

nothing in all the world but wide wastes and ridges and deep hollows of grey
nothing in all the world but wide wastes and ridges and deep hollows of grey

and shifting sands.   We stopped on our homeward way        for    tea   at
and shifting sands  . We stopped on our homeward Hellopoles Palace hotel , 

the Heliopolis Palace Hotel, and watched people of various nationalities from
                             and Watched people of bilious nationalities from

those who spoke an unknown tongue to nice Englishmen with darling dogs.   The
those who spoke in unknown tongue to nice Englishmen with darling dogs  . The

cousins have seen all the wonders of this land for so many years that they
cousins have seen all the wonders of this land for so many years that they

"cannot", as Doris told Artin Pasha this afternoon - "cannot        understand
cannot    is Doris told Artin Pasha this afternoon . "       cannot understand

why we are so wild with excitement whenever we see a camel." (Indeed Doris
why we are so wid  with excitement whenever we see a                      

riding a camel in Cairo would  be   much   less conspicuous that she is on a
         camel "  (     Indeed Dots riding less conspicuous that she is on a

horse in New Haven.) Artin Pasha, an  Armenian archaeologist of distinction,
horse in New Haven   )     Art    But Sayce    ,                            

and Prof. Sayre, Oxford Don, scientist of great renown, called this afternoon
                 Oxford Don  scientist of great renown  called this afternoon

and talked delightfully. Artin Pasha wore       his fez all the time, and I
and talked delsurtally   .     artin fashe Wore his fez al  the time  and I

                            have to confess looked the "unspeakable Turk",
known called this afternoon have to confess looked the unspeakable  Turk  

blear-eyed                and with a rather dreadful nose,   and the Oxford
"          , bicar - eyed and with a rather dreadful nose  , and the Oxford

Don wore a collar of prehistoric vintage, light brown socks and chopped-off  
Don wore a collar of prehistoric village  light brown socks and chopped     -

    Congress gaiters of black. Thursday,   December 5.   Today Cairo has
out Congress gaiters of black  Thursday  . December 'S . Today Cairo has

basked in sunlight,   but it's been a "white day",   the sky lacking the deep
basked in sunlight  , but it's been a white  day   " the sky acking  the deep

Egyptian blue and the air somewhat hazy. We went to the  Zoo,   which was
Egyptian blue and he  air somewhat bizzy We went to live Zoo  , which was

enchanting, visited the Beduin - our dahabeah - and I wish everybody I know
enchanting  visited the Beduin - our databean - and I wish everybody I know

and care for could see it. It's a beauty.   Jones and Amelie,   and the crew
and care for could see it  It's a beauty  . Jones and Amelie  , and the crew

and native servants (20    in number)   were all engaged in getting things
and native servants (   20 in number  ) were all Engaged in getting things

spick and span. A small flock of ducks came paddling frantically up when   
spick and span  A small flock of ducks came paddling frantically up histled

whistled for and gobbled the bread I threw them. We are to move on board
         for and gobbled the bread I threw them  We are to move on board

Monday and start early Tuesday morning.   This afternoon we went to the
Monday and start early Tuesday morning  . This afternoon we went to the

Citadel and entered that wonderful mosque of Mohammed Ali,   the minarets of
Citadel and entered that wonderful mosque of Mohammed Ali  , the minarets of

which are so ethereal, so exquisite, you almost fear they will vanish as you
which are so Ethereal  so exquisite  you almost fear they will vaccin as you

watch them. We did not have to put off our shoes from off our feet,   but we
watch them  We did not have to put off our shoes from off our feel  , but we

had to slip huge yellow slippers over them. Things go on being as deliciously
had to slip hugs yellow slippers over them  Things go on being as deliciously

strange as ever; a man sits on a bench in the Zoo and is shaved by an
strange as over  a man sits on a bench in the Zoo and is shaved by an

itinerant barber; a tall athletic figure clad in a heavenly blue garment
itinerant barber  a tall athletic figure clad in a heavenly blue garment

strides across the street with three dried crocodiles under his arm, and no
strides across the street with three dried crocodiles under his arms and to

one but 615 Orange Street [her home] even turns to look at him.   Every time
one but GIS Orange Street            even turns to look at him  . Every time

we emerge upon the terrace of Shepheard's, fakirs with monkeys,   cobras and
we emerge upon the terrace of Shepheard's  Eakins with monkeys  , cobras and

mongooses meet our enraptured gaze,   and the riot of color satisfies even my
mongooses meet air enraptured gaze  , and the riot of color satisfies even my

color loving soul. The notice in one's bedroom -- Ring once for the Waiter
color loving soul                                 Ring once for the Waiter

Ring twice for the Maid Ring three times       for the Arab tempts you   
Ring twice for the Mat  Ring Its   be    loves for the Arab every  fileen

to      ring three times every fifteen minutes. And, by the way I forgot to
minutes .    And   ,                                 by the way I forgot to

copy, in my letter about Naples, a        telegram I     received there from
copy  in my elle   about Naples  celestin receives where                from

Giulio Tedeschi, the young Italian whom we knew in England and who lives in
Giulio Tedesco   one young halian  whom we knew in England and who lives in

Livorno.   It was so deliciously un-American;          this was it: "My 6   
Liveme   . It was so deliciously un-          american this was it  !   " My

heartiest welcome,   my fondest thoughts to you both, wishing had been able to
hourtest  welcome  , my fondest thoughts in you both  wishing had been able to

come down with Jim. Am with you in my heart.   Sending love to all."   He told
come down with in   Am with you in my heart  . Sending love to all   " He told

Jim Whittaker that he "would       have given his soul"   to come to Naples to
him Whittaker that he "      would have given his soul  " to come to Naples to

meet us,   but his mother was ill and he couldn't. Now I must send this and
meet us  , but his mother was it  and he couldn't  Now I will send this and

write to someone else. Faithful love, Mary December 9. 1912. Shepheard’s Hotel
write in someone glac                      December 9  1912  Shepheard's Hold 

Cairo Dearest Adeline - I've seen the Sphinx.   In hot sunlight,   with a sky
Cairo Dearest Adeline - The  seen the Sphinx  . In hot sunlight  , with a sky

of a blue to make one gasp, with the desert wind in our faces and desert sand
of a blue to make one gasp  with the desert wind in our faces and desert sand

sifting into our shoes,   with an atmosphere of     molten pearls in the
sifting into our shoes  , with an atmosphere mollen        pearls in the

distance,   with here and there a white-robed Arab,      a stately camel, a
distance  , with here and there a while       robed Arab a stately cured  a

white donkey with  gay trappings, with  the pyramids towering in the
white Hand   print for Opinion    which the pyramids towering in the

background - we saw her.   No description I have ever read, no picture I have
background - we saw her  . No an                               picture I have

ever seen had prepared me. I'd like to sit and look at her for days.   The
ever seen had                                       at her for days  . The

pyramids are  tremendously impressive to think about,   but it  did  not
pyramid  sale tremendously impressive to t     prepared me  not like to 

thrill me  to   see them;   and I cannot describe the feeling that surged
fill   out look see them  ; and I cannot describe the feeling that surged

through me       when I faced the Sphinx. Doris and I wanted to climb the
the     such the when I faced the Sphinx  Doris and I wanted to climb the

Great Pyramid but Cousin Theodore absolutely refused to have us boosted by
Great Pyramid but Cousin Theodore absolutely refused to have us boosted by

Arabs so we had to give it up.   The Sphinx has been our great experience
Arabs so we had to give it up  . The Sphinx has been our great experience

since my last letter. For the rest,   the Arabian nights continues.   We are
                      For the rest  , the Arabian nights continues  . We are

wakened in the morning by the cry of the kites wheeling above the garden.  
wakened in the morning by the cry of the bares wheeling above the garden  .

When I fling open my blinds and look into said garden with its towering palms,
When I fling open my blinds and look into said garden with its opening  palms 

  its wonderful plants,   its vivid lawns,   I see a crane stepping "high,
, its wonderful plants  , its vivid lawns  , I see a crane stepping "     

     wide and handsome"   along the bright red paths.   This morning as I was
high wide and handsome  " along the bright red paths  . This rooming as I was

standing on the terrace in front of the                                       
standing on the serrace in front of rotting along on one side of him and a The

hotel a man went by on the sidewalk with a goat trotting along on one side of
hotel a man went by on the sidewalk with a gnat trotting along on one side of

him and a monkey on the other. The white-robed, red-sashed, befezzed
him and   monkey on the other                                       

individual who salaams as he opens the dining room door for us, wears a silver
                                   the dining room door for us  wears a silver

ring inserted coyly in the top of his right ear. Gorgeous creatures,
mine inserted coyly in the top of his right ear  Gorgeous creatures 

glittering with gold embroidery, seated at intervals in the halls, rise and
Blit       with gold embroidery  seated at intervals in the halls  rise and

salaam as we pass.   But the thing that, even after a week here,   strikes me
salaam as we pass  . But the that        even after a week here  , strikes me

as being a masquerade and not real life is the women on the sidewalks or in
as being a masquerade and not real life is the women on the sidewalks or in

beautifully appointed carriages who  look mysteriously at you with dark eyes
beautifully appointed carriages whin look mysteriously at you with dark eyes

gleaming above the white veil that hides the rest of their faces.   The woman
scamming above the white well that biles the rest of their faces  . The woman

on the sidewalk for the most part wears the black veil,   but she in the
on the sidewalk for the most part wears the black veil  , but she in the

victoria or brougham wears the white. Yesterday after church at All Saints
victoria or bugham   wears the white  Yesterday after church at All Saints

where Mr.   Sayce preached an excellent sermon on "Thy     Kingdom Come",  
where Mir . Sayce preached an excellent sermon on "    Thy Kingdom Come   "

Harry Burton and I drove to the Blue Mosque,   crumbling but very beautiful
Harry Button and I drove to the Blue Mosque  , crumbling but very beautiful

and with several interior walls covered with superb Persian tiles, any     one
and with several interior walls covered with suneth Persian tiles  ,   way one

of which I should consider a  treasure. Hundreds of youths and boys were
of which   should consider it           Hundreds of youths and boys were

seated in groups on the ground reciting the Koran at the top of their lungs.
seated in groups on the ground reciting the Koran at the top of their lungs 

In the afternoon we had a little tea on the dahabeah (its     name is the
In the afternoon we had a little tea on the dahabegh (    its name is the

Beduin) and,     while awaiting our guests, were infinitely amused watching
Beduin  )    and while awaiting our guests  were infinitely amused watching

the antics of our white cock and gorgeous drake each trying to assert
the antics of our while back and gorgeous drake each trying to assert

supremacy over a certain spot on the bank.   The drake was victorious and then
supremacy over a certain spot on the book  . The drake was victorious and then

proceeded to make himself look exactly like Napoleon. Our guests were Mr.
proceeded to make himself look exactly like Napoleon  Our guests were Mr 

Sayce, Artin Pasha,             and an Egyptian gentleman Claudius Bey,  
.      Sayce ,      Antin Pasta and an Egyptian gentleman Claudius Bay  ,

whose hair turned snow white a few years ago when he went to meet his wife on
whose hair turned snow white a few years ago when he went to meet his wife on

an incoming steamer at Alexandria and found her murdered in her cabin.   His
an incoming steamer at Alexandria and found her murdered in her cabins . His

two little girls, aged seven and five,   are living in England with their
two little girls  aged seven and five  , are living in England with their

Grandmother,   and he said he fancied he would have to go live in England too,
Grandmother  , and he said he fancied he would have to go live    England to  

as they absolutely refused to       come back to Egypt - seven and five!   I
as they absolutely refused to co to come back to beypt - seven and five  ! I

had an 7
had in  

absorbingly interesting talk with Mr. Sayce,   who told me some inside history
absorbingly interesting talk with Mr  Savce  , who told me some inside History

about Gordon,   who has always been one of my heroes. This afternoon Harry
about Gordon  , who has always been one of my heroes  This afternoon Harry

Burton and I dashed out in the motorcar to see the obelisk.   He couldn't tell
Button and I dashed out in the motorcar to see the obelisk  . He couldn't tell

me  what obelisk and the guidebook had been sent to the Beduin. But it was
the what obelisk and the guidabank had been sent to the Beduin  But it was

worth going to see, and in the neighborhood was an estate enclosed in one of
worth going to see  and in the neighborhood was an estate enclosed in one of

those high mud walls that fascinate me so, and between the obelisk and the
those high mid walls that fascinate me so  and between the obelisk and the

wall a flock of goats were feeding,         shepherded by three shrouded
wall a flock of goals were feed     feeding shepherded by throw shrouded

figures - quite perfect as a picture. Harry    starts for Luxor tonight by
figures - quite perfect as a picture  .     It starts for Luxor tonight by

train. There isn't a room for him on the dahabeah,   worse luck - he's one of
Gain   There isn't a room for him on the databoth  . worse luck   he's one of

the most amusing persons I've ever known. We board the Beduin tomorrow some
the most amusing parsons I've ever known  We board the Beduin tomorrow some

time.   It's all enchanting whether we go or stay. Goodbye,   dears all, for
time  . It's all enchanting whether we go or stay  Goodbye  , dears all, for

this time. Devotedly, Mary Tuesday. December 10. 1912. Dahabya Beduin Egypt
this time  Devotedly                                   Dahabya Beduin ELOpt

Dearest Adeline:- Our first night on the dahabeah (it really doesn't matter
                  Our first night on the databech it  really doesn't matter

much how you spell it - though I doubt not that the way  at      the top of
much how you spell it - though I doubt          the most knowing )   .     

this is really the most knowing). We spent the morning in preparations
                                  We spent the morning in facul       

to       move from the hotel, paying bills, etc., and dashing across the
tieswith           the this   time                                      

street for final purchases at little shops. Also Cousin Theodore elected to
       for one   or        so far    is     one  of     any      elected to

make it Christmas  for Doris and me, bestowing         upon Doris a pearl and
make it Christinas for Doris and me  .         stowing upon Davis a pearl and

diamond ring and upon me a gold mesh bag -much      too elegant for 615 Orange
diamond ring and upon me a gold mesh bag -     much too Began   for GIS Orange

Street, but     which really suits me to a T! At about 2:30, after tipping
Street  ,   bit which really suits me to a T  At about 2:30  after tipping

whole tribes of Arabs and other more commonplace nations of the earth, we   
whole tribes of Arabs and other more commonplace aations of the earth  .  We

four entered the bright red motor    cat and scooted Nile-wards,      
four entered the bright red actuator Car and scooted Nile        wards

followed by Jones and Amelie in another vehicle, the tops of their heads just
followed by Jones and Amelie in another vehicle  the tops of their heads just

visible above the masses of hand luggage packed around them. Although we had
visible above the masses of hand luggage packed around there Alltough we had

visited the Beduin daily it was with quite a different sensation that we
Visited the Beduin daily it was with quite a different sensation that we

stepped down our flowery bank (we    have quite a garden) and really took
stepped down ou  Anvery  bank (   we have quite a garden  and really took

possession.   Then we all set to work putting innumerable belongings into what
possession  . Then we all set to work putting innumerable belongings into what

seemed absolutely inadequate spaces for them.   But we finally evolved perfect
seemed absolutely inadequate spaces for them  . But we finally evolved perfect

order, the unpacked trunks were sent back to Cook's and the whole place looks
order  the unpacked trunks were sent back to Cook's and the whole place looks

like the Abode of Peace - a very luxurious Peace,   I grant you!   On
like the Abode of Peace - a very lunarrous Peace  , I grant you  ! On

answering a twice repeated summons to tea on the upper deck, I found a foreign
answering a twice repeated When           on the upper deck    found a foreign

gentleman of - to me -   most unpleasant personality, who on being introduced
scrimes   of   to me how      unpleasant personality  is  on being introduced

to me, rose, brought his heels together,   swept off is hat and bowed from the
to me  rose  brought his heels together  . swept off is hat and bowed from the

waist. Having  had my tea and not being fascinated with the Russian, I
waist  Ilaving had my tee and not being fascinated with the Russian  I

sauntered off. I was told afterwards that he is a first cousin to the Czar, is
suuttered      I was told afterwards that he is a first cousin to the Czar  is

fabulously rich, has an Egyptian museum of his own in Moscow,   and for a long
fabulously rich  has an Egyptian museum of his own in Moscow  , and for a long

time was in the habit of bringing with him to the Nile a new wife each year.
time was in the habit of bringing with him to the We   a new wife each year 

Whether at the end of each winter he fed the lady to the crocodiles, or
Whether at the end of each winter he fed the lady to the crocodiles  or

reserved her for Siberia, history does not record. There is about a ton of
reserved her for Siberia  history does not record  There is about a ton of

brown bread cut in slices spread out to dry on the deck at the stern.   It's
brown broad out in slices spread out to dry on the deck at the stem   . It's

for the crew. They like it that way. The birds hop joyously all over it, and a
              They like i  that way  The birds had joyously all over it  and a

cat or two pay thieving visits to it.   The crew and inside servants are
cat or two pay Thieving visits to it  . The crew and inside servants are

twenty in number and are so silent it is hard to believe there is one on
twenty in number and are so silent it is hard to believe there is one on

board.   They wear blue sweaters with BEDUIN in red letters across the 8
board  . They wear blue sit                                             

heart,   blue robes with gay bandanas tied about the waist and white turbans.
heart  , blue lobes with gay bandanas tied about the waist and white turbans 

All except the two captains,   who wear black robes and no sashes. And also
All except the two captains  , who wear black robes and no sashes  And also

except Haneen the butler,   whose raiment is much more important. He, I
except Fancen the butler  , whose raiment    much more important  He  I

believe, is a   Capt. and wears a fez instead of a turban. The second
believe  in cap       and wears a for instead of a tuber   The second

captain    is a wholly ferocious looking individual. He looks as though he'd
Individual .                                         He looks as though he'd

like to cut all our throats for the simple pleasure of doing it. But he's
like to out all our Chance  for an  ample  pleasure of doing     But be  

been   on the Beduin for years and is a great friend of Jones,   so I suppose
bolton    the bedlam for years and to a great friend at Jones  , so I suppose

he won't.   There was a rose and orange and gold and turquoise and violet and
he won't  . There was a rose and orange and gold and turquoise and Halat  and

dove grey and sea green sunset tonight and the slenderest thread of a new moon
dave grey and sea green sunset tonight and the stenderest thread of a new moon

anyone ever saw. We hope to get off tomorrow.   We are merely waiting for the
anyone           We hope to get off tomorrow  . We are merely waiting for the

tug which is to tow us.       Wednesday. December 11. No tug appeared today;
tus which is to low Wednesday            December 1   No tus appeared today 

instead there came a young man  from the firm of whom the tug is engaged, a
instead there come a young than from the form of whom the lug is engaged  a

gay and smiling youth named Schwartz, who announced that a telegram had come
gay and smiling youth named Schwartz  who announced that a telegram had come

saying the tug was coaling at some place up the river and would arrive early
saying the te  was coaling at some place up the river and would arrive early

in the morning. "A day late,"   I said. The Elders were napping so Doris and I
in the morning     day laze   " I said  The Elders were capping so Doris and I

were conducting the interview. "A   day late",   he said with a gay shrug,
were conducting the alerviews  "  A day late   ! he said with a gay shrug 

"but what is a day?”. "Nothing         in Egypt" I had to admit,   and truly
"but what is a day?"  "        Nothing in Egypt" I had to admit  , and truly

it has been so interesting watching the lazy life of the river that I don't
it has been so interesting watching the lazy bite of the river that I don't

care at all whether we go or stay. Mr. Schwartz plied us with questions,
care at all whether we                                   with This      

winding up with "This is a government boat?" "No,  it is      Mr.  Davis'
                      is a government boat   after my schulte pled with  

own.  He      had it built." "And you are going up the river alone?" "There
abond holders in                                   the where there         

are four of us." "But       how dull! Me, I should want sixteen in the party!"
are four of its  "    " But how dull  Me  I should want sixteen in the party! 

Think of having to be polite for ten or eleven days in the narrow confines of
Think of having to be police for ten or eleven days in the narrow confines of

a dahabya, to sixteen people!        Doris and I would not in the least object
a dabubya  to sixteen people  ! plot Doris and I woul  not in the least object

to one man - the vastly amusing Harry Burton - but he went to Luxor by  train
to one man - the vastly amusing Harry Button - but he went to Luxor ain      

last night,   there being no room for him on the Beduin. Thursday. December
last night  , there being no room for him on the Beduin  Thursday  December

12. The tug came before we were up this morning,   but we had to wait till the
12  The tus came before we were up this morning  , but we had to wait till the

bridge opened at ten. It was very entertaining to see people trying to get
bridge opened at ten  It was very entertaining to see people trying to get

across before the bridge should become useless,   as such, for an hour and  a
across before the bridge should become useless  , as such  for an how  over a

half.   Doris and I    fell into an      unseemly fit of giggling over a
funeral all   on  fool ,    "    beating "                              

funeral, all on foot, "beating" it over the bridge as though they were  going
                                it over the bridge as though they Mying the  

to   a fire. When the draw swung we   slipped through, followed by     another
WHEN I O     I    DE  ON   WHAT  MINI HOPED   Would    love     ANDThe ONLY   

dahabya flying  the Stars and Stripes. We have no idea whose she is - we only
and     Stripes .                      We have no We                         

know we sailed away from her early in the day and have had no glimpse of her
        sailed away from her early in the day and have had no glimpse of her

since. It has been a vivid Egyptian day with all that that means of light and
since  It has been a vivid Egyptian day with all that that means of light and

color. And what scenes! How  can I even try to give the faintest idea of their
color  And what iconon  Ilow can I even try to give the funtest  idea of their

strangeness, their charm,   their savage or seductive beauty?   And the River
strangeness  their charm  , their savage or seductive beauty  ? And the River

itself - small wonder that people have worshipped it for centuries.   It has a
itself . small wonder that people have worshipped it for centuries  . It has a

human personality which I feel. For long after leaving Cairo we passed towns
human personality which I food  For long after leaving Cure  we passed towns

or scattered habitations more or less Cairo-like        in their look and
or scattered habitations more or less Cairo      - like in their look and

construction - cream colored walls and an air of civilization.   Those came 
construction - cream colored walls and an air of civilization  . Those cathe

to an end and then there were long stretches of country, scattered native
to an end and then there were long stretches of          scattered native

villages made of mud, with a beauty all their own, towering palms here and
villages made of mud  with a beauty all their own  towering palms here and

there - large groves of them sometimes - then the grainfields        with a
there - large groves of them sometimes - then the grain       fields with a

hum of industry about them and great barges being loaded or unloaded -and    
bum of industry about them and great barges being loaded or unloaded -    and

always behind them on the East Shore the Arabian desert with its line of hills
always behind them on the last Shore the Arabian desert with its line of hills

which follow us all the way to Luxor, fierce, desolate, burning,        
which follow us all the way to luxor  fierce  ,         desolate burning

superbly beautiful beneath the magic of the Egyptian sun,   but intolerable to
superbly beautiful beneath the magic of the Egyptian sun  , but intolerable to

even imagine under a gloomy sky.   At sunset we tied up to the bank between
even imagine under a gloomy sky  . At sunset we tied up to the bank between

two tiny native hamlets.   To effect the tying up process one of the crew goes
two tiny native homies   , To effect     tying up process one of the crew goes

ashore with the anchor on his shoulder (this      is a true statement)   and
ashore wid  the anchor on his shoulder (     this is a live element    ) and

worries it into the sand; two  of the crew go ashore each with an enormous
worries it into the sand  tive of the crew go ashore each with an enormous

wooden pin the size of a country hitching post; two more of the crew,   armed
wooden pin the size of a country hitching post  the mare of the crew  , armed

with gigantic wooden mallets, hammer        these pins into the sand and to
with gigantic wooden fallels  ,      harmer these pins into the sand and in

these we are tied.   Then a desert stillness settles down upon us,   while the
these we are tied  , Then a desert stillness settles down upon us  , while the

stars blaze out overhead. 9
stars blaze out overhead  .

Friday.   December 13.   This is a land of pure delight. I've spent the entire
Friday  , December 13  . This is a land of pure del      we   spent the entire

day, practically,               on deck, absorbed in watching shores Cousin
day  ,            practically ; on       absorbed to watching whores cousin

Theodore pronounces "dull". The first thing we   saw after breakfast (we   
spender  pronounces ful     the house looks five bar after breakfast (   we

started about an hour before we were up)   was that strange monument      the
started about an hour before we were up  ) was that strange mony     ment the

Arabs call the "false pyramid" -        the Pyramid of Meidum,   built in
Arabs call the "      False    pyr amid the Pyramid of Meldum  , built in

three concentric towers,   the central one the highest. To me it's much more
three concentric towers  , the central one the highest  To me it's much more

impressive than the other pyramids. The scenery today has been less
impressive than the other pyramids  The scenery today has been lass

spectacular than ye3terday,   but everything is so fascinating and there is no
spectacular than yesterday  . but everything is so fascinating and there is no

stretch so desolate but that you see some human figures,   these splendid
stretch so desolate but that you see some human figures  , these splendid

figures in their always artistic robes - not blue as in Cairo where
figures in their always artistic robes - not blue as in Cars  where

nine-tenths          of the natives wear the most heavenly shades of blue,  
nine        - tenths of the natives wear the most heavenly shades of the   ,

but in sharp contrast of black and white. Sometimes it will be a solitary
but in sharp tonbast  of black and white  Sometimes it will be a solitary

figure seated brooding by the Nile,   far from any habitation, or a group of
figure caled  brooding by the Mile  , far from any habitation  or a group of

women filling their water jars at the river,   men working at a shaduf or,
women filling their water inus at the river  , men working at a shadit or 

most delightful of all to me, a frieze-like effect             against the sky
most delightful of all to me  a frieze      -      like client against the sky

(when      the road runs along the top of a high embankment)   or a camel
(     when the roud runs along the top of u high embankment  ) or a camel

loaded so with cane that you can only see his legs, a woman with a water jar
loaded so with cane that you can only see his legs  a Woman with a water jar

upon her head, a donkey ambling along with  a shrouded Arab sitting on his
upon her head  a donkey ambling along which a shrouded Arab sitting on his

tail (almost), a camel       with a rider swaying on his back, - I never in a
tail almost    ) &     canel with a rider staying on his back  . I never in a

thousand years could get tired of it. The strangest village we have seen today
thousand years could get tired of it  The strangest village we have seen today

we did not at first recognize as a village - it so melted into the hills
we did not at first recognize as a village - it as melted into the hills

behind it, as bare and desolate as they -the whole scene made up of burning
behind it  as base and desolate as they the  whole scene made up of burning

sand, glaring rocks         and sun-baked mud,  except,        clear down in
sand  glaring me    8 mckin and sun       baked mid     except clear down in

the foreground by the river, a tiny square of emerald grass with three lovely
the forceround by the river  a tiny square of emerald grass with three lovely

trees. Presently we came to the most fascinating sight of the afternoon - on a
bees   Presently we came to the most fascinating sight of the afternoon - on a

point at a bend in the river,   and surrounded by palms,   the cream colored
point at a bend in the river  , and surrounded by paints , the cream colored

Coptic Convent of Mar Antonios,   with a splendid tree top springing up
Coptic Convent of Mar Antonios  , with a splendid tree top springing up

through the roof. Back of the convent starts a caravan route to the Red Sea.
through the roof  Back of the consent starts a caravan route to the Red Sea 

Just before the luminous dusk began to steal about us we slipped past an
just before the luminous dusk began to steal about us we slipped past an

estate with a villa of importance and many  outhouses and all the air of
estate with a villa of Importance and inany outhouses and all the air of

belonging to Someone-in    Particular - perhaps to "Our Mother of the Khedive"
belonging to Someone    in Particular - perhaps to Our  Mother of the Khedivel

as the dragoman  say. And from beneath the giant palms three camels arose at
as the dragroman say  And from beneath the giant palms three canels arose at

the bidding of an Arab and slipped down to the river to fill up their fifteen
the bidding of an Arab and slipped down to the river to fill up their fifteen

stomachs. Saturday. December 14. And Doris' birthday.   We have passed through
Saturday            December 14  And Boris  birthday  . We have passed through

scenes today considered uninteresting by those who have been up the river
scenes today considered interesting   by those who have been up the river

twenty-two       and down it twenty two.   But Doris and I loved every foot of
twenty     - two and down in twenty two  . But Doris and I loved every FOUL of

it. About the middle of the afternoon we  tied up to an island in order that
it  About the middle of the afternoon aye led  up to as island in order that

the tug might coal at Shekh-Fadl,         a town with a huge sugar factory
the tus might coal at Shelf       - Fad , a town with a hume sugar factory

close by on the mainland. Doris and I immediately took to the island for a
close by on the mainland  Doris and I immediately took to the island for a

walk, with one of the crew as bodyguard.         I privately scouted the idea
walk  with one of the crow as body       guard . I privately scouted the idea

of the necessity when we started out but changed my mind before our return. An
of the necessity In   we started out but changed my mind before our         An

Arab of your own carrying a stout stick is a comforting appendage when you
Arab of your own carrying a scout stick is a            appendage when you

meet other Arabs in lonely stretches. Our island had no houses,   but it did
mood other Arabs in lonely stretches  our island had to house   , but i  did

have numerous vegetable gardens. It    was much larger than we thought when we
have Numerous vegetable gardens  .  it was much larger than we thought when we

first undertook to walk around it. Walking in the powdery sand along the shore
first undertook to walk around it  Walking in the powdery band along the shore

was tiring, and then I proved     that between persons of intelligence
was timing  and then I pro    ved that between persons of intelligence

community of language is not necessary. "Why",         said Ito    our Arab,
community of language is not necessary  .      " Why " said I   to our Arab 

who knows not a word of English, "can't       we cross over here to the boat?"
who knows not a word of English  "      can't we eras  over here to the book  

"Because",         said he in Arabic, of which I know only the one word
"          Because said he in Arabic  of which I know only the one word

"Kaddah" (liar), "we             may not walk through the standing crop."
Kandiah  "       (   lias ) " We may not walk through the standing wrap  

Sunday. December 15. - and the first warm  morning that we've had.   We have
Sunday  December Is    and the fast  warth thomas  that we've had  . We have

passed close to the base of giant limestone cliffs where hordes of white-robed
passed close to the base of real  limestone clits  where hordes of white      

men       were quarrying and tumbling great pieces of gleaming rock down to
robed ven were warming   and rumbling area  pieces of gleaning rock down to

the water's edge.   The sunshine on the scene made a blinding glare,   but it
the water's case  . The sunshine on the scene made a blinding glare  , but it

was very beautiful; and then came the splendid Gehelet-Ter ("Bird Mountain")  
was very beautiful  and then came the splendid Gehelet     -      Ter        (

                    rising sheer from the water,   and on its summit the
" Bird Mountain " ) rising fees  from the water  , and on its summit the

Convent of Der el Adra ("Our       Lady Mary the Virgin").     It is also
Convent of Der el Adra (     " Our Lady Mary the Virgin    ) . It is also

called the Convent of the Pulley,   because visitors used to be hauled up by
called the Convent of the Pulley  , because visitors used to be hauled up by

that device.   Now there are steps cut in the rock, and as we looked there
that device  . Now there are stops cut in the rack  and as we looked there

came bounding down them with incredible speed a woman with a water jar on her
came hounding down them with incredible speed a woman with a water jar of her

head.   Today we have seen for the first time those long,   long stretches of
head  . Today we have seen for the       time those long  , long stretches of

brilliant green close to the river's edge, which in my childhood I 10
brilian   green close to the river's edge  which in my child         

imagined bordered the Nile on both sides of its entire length. Also we've had
imagined bordered the Vile on both sides of its entire length  Also we've had

clouds and two or three dashes of rain and strong winds that have blown the
clouds and two    three dashes of rain and strong winds that have blown the

sand till the air has been full of a foglike  mist. And now I really must
sand till the air has been full of a faiglike       And now I really must

write to my mother and my son, and a few other persons who will stop loving me
write to my mother and my son  and a few other persons who will stop loving me

if I don't. This will be posted at Asyut tomorrow,   and unless something
if I don't  This will be posted at Ashut tomorrow  , and unless something

particularly interesting happens I shall add no more to this edition.   Except
particularly interesting happens I shall add to more to this edition  . Except

always my faithful love to my dear DuBois, Blake      and Mitchell friends.
always my faithful love to my dear DuBois  Blake lake and Mitchell friends 

MBN Tuesday,   December 17. The Beduin on the Nile,   somewhere near Abutig
.   Tuesday  , December 17  The Beduin on the Mile  , somewhere near Abulig

and about 260 miles south of Cairo. Dearest Adeline: - I'm not going to treat
and about 260 miles south of Cairo  Dearest Adeline:   I'm not going to treat

you to the best writing paper every time.   If I used it all up on my personal
you to the best writing paper every time  . If I used it all up on my personal

correspondence I might cease to be persona grata on the Beduin.   But this is
correspondence I might cease to be persona grate on the Bedin   . But this is

the Royal Cambrian Writing Pad, which       sounds as though it ought to suit
the Royal Cambrian Writing Pad  ,     Which sounds as though it ought to suit

the most exacting. We did not get to Asyut until one today, but our last hour
the most exacting  We did not yet to Asjut until one today  but our last hour

of daylight yesterday was one never to be        forgotten. For at least an
of daylight yesterday was one never to forgotten .          For in lost  an

hour we were skimming past the base of giant cliffs  rising sheer from the
hour we were slamming past the base of giant cliff's rising sheer from the

river - the wonderful Gebel Abu Feda. Really cafe-au-lait         in color
river - the wonderful Gebel Abe Feda  Realy  cafe         au lait in color

they were glowing with tints of unearthly beauty caught from the orange and
they were glowing with lines of unearthly beauty caught from the orange and

rose sunset going on across the river. Their jagged summits cut into a sky of
rose sunset going on across the river  That  lagged summits cut into a sky of

such ecstatic blue that it made my throat contract. (Perfect           color
such ecstatic blue that it made my throat contract  .        ( perfect color

does that to me.)   And high above the mast rode a silver half moon.   Never
does that to me   ) And high above the mast rode a silver half moon  . Never

before have I seen a really silver moon. We reached Asyut at luncheon time.
before have I soon   really silver mewon We reached Asout at luncheon time 

Doris and I bolted that meal in haste and went ashore with Haneen as
Don's and I bolted that meat is haste and went ashore with Hancen as

bodyguard, to take a drive through the town. We had to land in the felucca,  
bodyguard  to take a drive through the town  We had to land in the felucca  ,

and it was very pleasant being rowed by six Arabs handling their oars with a
and it was very pleasant being towed by six Arabs handling their cars with a

man-of-war's precision.                      We drew up at the bottom of a
man          -          of war's precision . We drew up at the bottom of a

steep bank done in rough masonry and by means of a mariner at each elbow and
sleep bank done in touch masonry and by means of a mariner at zac  allow and

my own active strides I was wafted to the top like a withered leaf. (It is my
in own above  strides   was wanted to the for like   withered last  it  to my

regard for the Eternal Fitness of Things that made me say withered leaf
record for the Eternal Fitness of Things that made me say withered !   

instead of lotus flower, as I wanted to.) In a rickety victoria with a wooly
10      )  to    bicker                                victoria with a wooly

yellow mat  seething with fleas under our feet, and Haneen perched beside  the
yellow meat scollins with less  under our feet  and funeen perched because he 

driver, who wore his turban at a      rakish angle acquired only by the few,
lives   who were as  soon   as relish single       acquired only by the for 

and who shouted every foot of the way to clear the road, we proceeded through
    who shouted every fool of the way to clear the road  we proceeded through

the bazaar and the    market. The bazaar was like Cairo,   only not nearly so
the bazour and market .       The bizzar was like Cairo  , only not nearly so

interesting,   but the market (it    was market day)   was more than worth
interesting  , but the market (   it was market day  ) was more than worth

seeing.   A mass of people, bulls, camels,          donkeys in a dust  trodden
seeing  . A mass of people  ,      bulla   camels , donkeys in a don't trodden

space with walls on three sides and the fourth open to heavenly green fields,
space with walls on three sides and the fourth open to heavenly green fields 

  and an imposing mountain in the background with an ancient burying ground
, and an imposing mountain in the background will an ancient burying ground

and the ruins of the old city at its foot. Asyut is a prosperous and wealthy
and the ruins of the old city at its Asgut       is a prosperous and wealthy

town,   with many pretentious houses owned by rich natives,   and some
town  , with many pretentious houses owned by rich nulived  . and some

charming bungalows evidently inhabited by English people.   The one other
chatting bungalows evidently inhabited by English people  . The ane other

flaw,   besides the yellow mat,   to our expedition was the way the driver
tary  , besides the yellow mat  , to our expedition was the way the drive 

lashed the horses. "Haneen, make him stop whipping his horses."     A word
lashed the lives   Dancers  make hon stop whipping his horses   . " A word

from Haneen which took effect for a minute and a half. "Haneen, tell      him
from Haneen which took effect for a minute and a half  Ilanced  ,    cell him

not to beat his horses."     A minute of respite. "Haneen,      it displeases
not to beat his horses   . " A minute of respite  .        " Hi it displeases

me to have the horses beaten. Make him stop." Fierce          remarks in the
me to have the horses beaten  Make him step   .      " Ficroo remarks in the

vernacular from Haneen,   five minutes peace,   then the wallopings were
vernacular from Haneen  , five minute  peace  , then the walloping  were

resumed and I gave up. You might have an apoplexy or burst a blood vessel
resumed and I gave up  You might have an apoplexy            blood vessel

trying to prevent it,   and all in vain. The Beduin had moved up stream and
trying to prevent it  , and all in vain  The Beduin had moved up stream and

the water 11
the water   

was too shallow for the felucca  to reach the shore.   Before we knew where we
was too shallow for the tellteen to reach the shore  . Before we knew where we

were "at",        Doris and I had been lightly and       skillfully picked up,
were "     at " , Doris and I had been lightly skillfuly            picked up 

carried through the water and gently deposited in the boat. One of the marked
carried through the water and gently deposited in The bone  one of the marked

features of    Asyut was that during our entire progress through it we  did
said     About       was the  during our entire prosecut through in the did

not see a single white person,   though there must be a number of English in
not see a single while person  , though there must be a number of English in

residence. I promise not to go on raving about sunsets - but tonight there was
residence    promise not to go on raving about sursets - but could   there was

one,   the beauty of which was beyond anything I ever dreamed of; when I
one  , the beauty of which     beyond anything I ever dreamed of  when I

thought it was over and done with it had only just begun.   Egyptian sunsets
thought it was over and done with it had only just begun  . Egyptian sunsets

will now be a part of what I mean when I say in the Gloria in Excelsis "We
will now be a part of what I mean When I say in the Chora  in Excelsis We 

thank Thee for Thy great glory." Wednesday. December 18. I almost forgot to
thank Thee for Thy great glory   &          albinos               forgot to

get dressed this morning in my absorption watching the panorama on the eastern
get dressed this morning in on abortion   watching the panorama on the eastern

bank as I hung out of the window.   They had all seemed to garb themselves
bank as I hung out of the window  . They     all seemed to garb to        

with       an eye to symphonies. Two tan colored sheep were being driven by a
symphonies .                     Two tan colored shoop were being driven by a

man  and a boy in tan colored robes. A man shrouded in black was riding a    
than and   boy to the colored tobed  ? me  nodded   in black     riding bikes

black buffalo. Another black buffalo had a man in black tagging at his tail. A
butis          Another bad   buffalo had a man in black razzing at his tail  A

camel swung along       with his rider clad in camel color with a rose scarf
camel suing along along with his rider clad in camel color with a rose scarf

around his neck - nothing could have been  better. Doris has made two
around his neck - nothing could have Don's               has made two

astounding statements today.   Possibly wearied by my oft-repeated
astounding statements today  . Possibly wearied by my off         

exclamations of wonder at the skill with which the women carry their water
exclamations of wonder at the still with which the women carry their water

jars on their heads, she     announced she was sure she could do it herself.
jars on their heads  ,   She announced she was sure she could do it herself 

"Not full"        said I. "Yes, full." "How far?" "Oh,                quite a
"    Not   full " said I  .     "      Yes  full  "    " How far ? Oh quite a

distance." "You     don't really think you could!" "Yes,     I do." On being
dance      to   you don't really think you could   .     Yes I do   .  Or   

pinned down   relentlessly,              she admitted that it might be wise
have   phoned town          relentlessly she admitted that it       be wise

for her to wear a bathing suit while doing it.       Statement No. 2 was when
for her to wear a bathing suit while doing Statesden Ne.       I     was when

Cousin T. and I    joined her on deck this morning and she announced that a
could  i  and will be         on deck this mutant  and she announced that a

flock of cranes numbering at least a thousand had flown overhead. We couldn't
flock of craves numbering at least a thousand had flown overhead  We couldn't

make her come down a single crane.   Yesterday I saw a lovely flight of
make her come down a single crane  . Yesterday I saw a lovely flight of

snow-white ones,            wheeling over a sandbar and then settling on it.  
snow       -     white ones wheeling over a andbar  and then sculing  on it  .

The most spectacular thing on the shores today has been the stunning cliffs of
The most spectacular thing on the shores today has been the stunning cliffs of

the debel-elHarideh, with                  ancient quarries   and tombs,   and
the debel            -    el - Harich With ancient quarrie  8 and tombs  , and

- way up a gorge - an altar to a serpent with miraculous healing powers.  
- way up a gorge - an altar to a serpent with miraculous leaving powers  .

There is a yearly eight-day festival in honor of said snake,   a festival to
There is a yearly clubday   festival in honor of said snake  , a festival to

which the Nile boatmen flock. We've seen scores of shadufs   working the last
which the Nile boatmen took   We've seen scores of shardul's working the last

few days,   but this afternoon  we heard  for the first time the musical,
few days  , but this allenwould we Intend for the first time the musica  

lonely cry of the men  who work them. Also as our dahabya  was passing one
lonely cry of the ones who work then  Also as our daliabya was passing one

man,   he strode down the bank, yanked off his one and only garment and
man  , he stude  down the       yanked off his one and only gate    and

proceeded to wash it in the river.   And the queer thing is you don't mind.
proceeded to wash it in the river  , And the queer thing is you don't mind 

Don't ask me why this is so because I don't know why. We overhauled a dahabya
Don't and mo why this is so because I don't know why  We overhauled a databya

this afternoon flying the English flag. Her name was Enterpe.   As she was
this afternoon Dying  the English dag   for name was Enterpe  . As she was

sailing unassisted   by any tug, we easily ran away from her.   We have made
siding  withassisted by any way  we easily run away from her  . We have made

seventy-two       miles today. Thursday. December 19. Today has been made up
seventy     - two miles today  Thursday  December 19  Today has been made up

of sunshine (as always) delicious warmth, enchanting sights     on    the
of sunshine (   as      always    )       delicio    gochanting aches of 

shores,   and birds innumerable. I myself counted sixty-two    pelicans     
thephones and binds enumerable     myself counted sily      wo pelicans Live

         sitting on one sandbar.   We have three little birds of our own,
pelicans sitting on one sandbar  . We have three little birds of our own 

wag-tails, that fly  along with us and eat cake after tea till they spoil
way        but  coke where few                            till they spoil

their figures and actually begin to waddle. We are tied up tonight near Nag
their figures and actually begin to waddle  We are tied up tonight bear Nay

Hamadi,     and the Masperos are tied up on the other side of the river.  
Hamadi  mad and the Masperos are tied up on the other side of the river  .

They started two days ahead  us,   but their boat is a heavy old thing.
They started two days aliand us  , but their boat is a heavy old thing 

Friday. December 20. We were late in leaving Nag Hamadi      this morning
Friday  December 20  We were late in leaving Naz The    madi this morning

because the tug had to take on five tons of coal. Sixteen natives sat
because the big had to take an five tons of coal. Sixteen natives sat

motionless on the bank and watched me for half an hour undoing a snarl in my
motionless on the bank and watched me for half ao bour undoing a start in my

knitting silk. It's their capacity for sitting motionless,   I think, that has
knitting silk  It's their capacity for stating notionless  , I think  that has

earned them their reputation for laziness,   for they certainly can work, they
cared  them their reputation for laziness  , for they certainly can work  they

are alert in their movements and they never grow fat. 12
are alert in their movements and they never grow for    

We passed Kasr-es-Saiyad ("the        Hunter's Castle")     today and saw an
We passed Katies         Saiynd ( His Hunter's Cusile   " ) today and saw an

amazing sight.   What well might have been a castle was a pigeon house and
amazing sight  . What well might have been a castle was a pigeon house and

nothing else.   Hundreds of thousands of pigeons were perched upon its
nothing else  , Hundreds of thousands of pigeons were perched upon its

battlements, wheeling over it, swooping about it, while fresh flocks were
battlements  wheeling over it  swooping about it  while fresh flocks were

hurrying towards it from all directions. Opposite Kasr-es-Saiyad            
                    from all directions  Opposite Kass           - as Sailed

lies Hon,   the home of Sheikh Seline who died a     few years ago after
lies Ion  , the home of Shyekh sale   who died henry cal BED   Nor his  

sitting stark naked on the banks of the Nile for 53  years. They have built
Death   inked       on the bunch of the Are  for 3'S seats  They have built

his tomb on the sacred spot and the natives make pilgrimages to it. We expect
his tomb on the sacred spot and the natives make pilgrimages to it  We expect

to reach Luxor     tomorrow and I shall begin a fresh letter there.   It will
to reach Luxor tom tomorrow and I shall begin a fresh letter there  . It will

be good to get letters. Ten days without mail is a long while. Adios,   my
he good to get letters  Ten days without wall is a long while  Adios  , my

dears all,   and Heaven bless you. Devotedly, Mary  Christmas Eve. 1912.
dears al   , and Heaven bles  you  Dallabya   Bedun razor     Fish By   

Dahabya Beduin Luxor, Egypt "By the fertile stream Where, in Egyptian Thebes,
                                the fertile stream Where  in Burptian Tribes 

  the heaps of precious ingots gleam,   The hundred-gated Thebes,      
, the heaps of precious ingots gleam  . The hundred       -       gated

          where twice ten score in martial state Of valiant men with steeds
Thieves , where Isice ten score in martial stute                           

and cars March through each massy gate."   Don't you love that, Adeline?   And
         March through each pussy gate   . Don't you love that  Adeline  ? And

to think that I am here! I cannot get used to the wonder of   that. We reached
to think that I am here  I cannot get used to the wonder When       We reached

here at noon on Saturday, a     day like all our days - soaked in sunshine. We
here at noon on saturday  aides     like al  our days   soaked in sunshine. we

slipped "past garden wall and gallery" with glimpses of those lovely columns
                                                     of those lovely columns

of the Temple of Luxor in between; past    the    Winter Palace, and then    
of the Temple of EURO  IN BETWEEN  fanatic Winner Palo   TO      The SEASONAL

diagonally across the river to     our  mooring place on the west bank.   We
MADE       HOPING TO  OUT   DURING past the     place on the west bank  . We

have it all to ourselves because most  people prefer to herd in the thick of
have it all to ourselves because those people profor to hand in the       of

things on the east bank with their noses bumping each other's tails, until
things on the cast bank with their noses bumping each other's tails  until

there isn't an inch left in which to tie a boat.   So we are sole owners at
there isn't an inc  led  in which to tie a bowl  . So we are sole owners at

present of a wide and lovely beach,   back of which stretches a wondrous plain
present of a wide and lovely beach  , back of which screeches a wondrous plain

of strips of burning sand and strips of brilliant green and lines of trees,
of strips of burning sand and strips of brilliant green and lines of trees 

and back of all the glaring fiercely beautiful Libyan mountains where our
and back of all the glaring bercely  beautiful Libyan mountains where our

valley lies. We made an encampment with the dahabya, a tent for the sailors,  
valley lies  .  made an encampment with the dahabya  a tent for the sailors  ,

a lot of stylish yellow poles to which the clothes lines are attached, and two
a lot of stylish yellow poles to which the clothes lines are attached  and two

luxurious yellow coops into which the poultry farm is shoved at sunset. It was
luxurious yellow coops into which the poultry farm is shoved at sunset  It was

too amusing when the small coops were first lifted off the Beduin  onto the
too amusing when the small coops were first lifted off the Bedouin onto The

sand and opened.   Sir Francis Drake and his three ladies waddled madly for
sand and opened  . Sir Francis Drake and his three ladies waddled madly for

the edge of the bank, slid down it on their tails and hurled themselves into
the edge of the bank  slid down it on their fails and hurled themselves into

the water.   The turkeys were so stiff they could hardly stand at first,   but
the water  . The workers were so still hey  could hardly stand at first  , but

in less than five minutes the gobbler     was strutting and rustling and
in less than five minutes the gobbler ler was strutting and rustling and

gobbling as though he owned Upper Egypt, including the Sudan,   while the hen
gobbling as though he owned upper Beypt  including the Sudan  , while the her

turkey was busily superintending one of the crew  polishing copper pots with
turkey was busily superintending one of the cress polishing copper pots with

sand. To see the white cock stepping jauntily about no one would have imagined
sand  To see the white cock stepping jamilly  about no one would have mayined 

him to be a heart-broken widower,                all his wives having been
him to be a heart        -        broken undower all his Ives  having been

eaten on the way up.   Perhaps he foresaw that he would have three more in
eaten on the way up  . Perhaps be foresaw that he would have three more in

about an hour and a half. At luncheon the mail was brought from across the
about an hour and a halt  At luncheon the mall was brought from across the

river,   our first in 10 days,   and we buried ourselves in letters.   There
river  , our first in 10 days  , and we buried ourselves in letters  . There

was a dear one from you, Adeline.   The afternoon waned in perfect beauty, of
was a dear one from you  Adeline  . The afternoon waned in perfect beauty  of

which I recked nothing,   having suddenly gone to bed with a fiendish attack
which I rocked nothing  , having suddenly gone to bed with a Grealish attack

of neuralgia in my face. It    passed after four or five hours and I slept
of neuralgia in my face  .  it passed after four or five hours and I slept

like an infant and woke up Sunday morning very fit indeed and wishing greatly
like on infor      woke up Sunday morning very fit indeed and wishing greatly

to go to the English Church at 13
to go to the English Church at   

Luxor and thank God for all His  goodness.   But my face was swollen still and
Luxe  and thank God for all this goodness  . But my face was swollen still and

Cousin Emma  protested against my going,   as the church, she said, was apt to
Cousin Exima foster    against my going  , as the church  she said  was apt to

be cold. So we all spent the morning on the boat. In the afternoon Cousin
be sold  So we all spent the morning on the boat  In the afternoon Cousin

Theodore, Doris and I and Jones,   all in our riding clothes, were rowed over
Theodore  Doris and I and Jones  , all in our riding clothes  were rowed over

to Luxor in the felucca,   and there our own donkeys and our own saddles and
to Luxor In the felucca  , and there our own donkeys and our own saddles and

our own donkey boys were awaiting us, and off we  rode to Karnak with our boys
our own donkey boys were awaiting us  and off vic rode to Kacook with our boys

running beside us. And along the waterfront of Luxor Cousin Theodore had an
running beside us  And along the waterfront of Luxor Cousin Theodore had an

ovation. Lines of dragomans and humble  folk rose to their feet and beamingly
ovation  Lines of dragomans and fusible folk case to their feet and beamingly

shouted a welcome to him. As his own donkey boy said, kissing his hand, "All  
showed  a welcome to him  As his own donkey boy said  kissing his hand  ,    "

    the world is thankables that Mr.   Davis are come back!"     They say he
All the world is thankables that Mr  . Davis are come back   ! " They say he

is known up and down the Nile as "The     Friend of the Poor". It is
is known up and down the Mile as "    The Friend of the Poor   It is

impossible,   I think, for anyone to describe those stupendous ruins with
impossible  , I think  for anyone to describe those stupendous ruins with

their deathless beauty and immortal splendor.   It seized upon me almost like
their deathless beauty and immortal splendor  . It seized upon me almost like

a sudden grief that stayed till the late afternoon chill began to tinge the
a sudden grief that layed  till the late afternoon chill began to tinge the

air, and then ambled  back on our donkeys. I adore riding a donkey. Mine is
air  and then amilled back on our donkeys  I adore riding a donkey  Mine is

named Sugar,   and my delightful little donkey boy, with the most engaging
named Sugar  , and my delightful little donkey boy  with the most engaging

smile, is Malimond.          Yesterday morning Doris and I attended by
smile  ,  Is        Malimand Yesterday morning Doris and I attended by

Malimond and Nobi (Doris's boy)    rode      again to Karnak and poked about
Maimand  and Nabi (        Doria's bry  mode again in Kamal  and poked about

alone with a map,   and felt sorry for people being conducted by vociferating 
alone with a map  , and felt sorry for people being conducted by vociferationg

guides. On getting back to Luxor we     joined the Cousins who were walking in
guides  On getting back to Luxor we joi joined the Cousins who were walking in

the Winter Palace Gardens with Mr. Charles Whymper,   that delightful
the Winter Palace Gardens with Vir Charles Whimper  , that delightful

Englishman with a much too loud voice,   who writes pleasant books about birds
Englishman with a much too loud voice  . who writes pleasant books about birds

and illustrates them with his own lovely pictures. Whymper,   the mountain
and illustrates them with his own lovely pictures  Whimper  , the mountain

climber,   was his brother. In the afternoon Cousin Theodore and Doris went
climber  , was his brother                                   and Doris well

off on their donkeys across the sands toward      the Libyan hills and I, with
off on their donkeys across the sands !      owrd the Lyjan  hills and I  with

six of the crew to row me and the ferocious second captain perched like a
six of the ev   to row me and the ferocious second captain perched like a

gigantic black bird at the stern,   and Jones as escort, went      over to
Frantic  black bird at the stern  , and Jones as escort  ,    well over to

Luxor to visit some of the native shops.   We paid a visit to Mohammed
Luxor to visit some of the rative shops  . We paid a visit to Mohammed

Muhassib - the great and reliable dealer in antiquities,   and because of his
Muhassib - the great and coliubic dealer in antiquities  , and because of his

regard for Cousin Theodore, I was received with pomp and graciousness by the
regard for Cousin Theodore  I was received with pomp and graciousness by the

hoary,   turbaned old Arab,   and conducted into an inner treasure room where
hoary  , turbaned old Arab  , and conducted inse an inner treasure room where

the casual purchaser never penetrates. We had his youngest grandson, a
the casual purchaser never penetrates  We had                        a

beguiling baby in yellow satin and fez-shaped cap            of white,  
beguiling baby in yellow setin and fee        -   shaped cup of white  ,

brought in and introduced to me. And then he gave me coffee fit for the gods,
brought in and introduced to me  And then he gave me coffee fit for the soul 

and I bought a small alabaster vase, and with many salutations I departed. I
and   bought a smal  alabaster                     salutations I departed  I

heard him  telling Jones that one of his wives - "the     old one" had died.
heard face telling Jokes that one of his wives - "    the old one  had died.

They opened the dam  at Assouan yesterday - a real attention to me on my
They opened the same at asongs  yesterday   a real attention to me on my

birthday - and the Khedive and Lord Kitchener were there.   I'd rather see
birthday - and the Khedive and Lord Kitchener were there  . I'd rather see

Lord Kitchener than any man in the world. This morning Doris and  I were rowed
Lord Kitchener                 the        This morning Doris andI   were rowed

across and spent the best of the morning being shampooed and manicured.   The
access and spent the best of the morning being shampooed and manicured  . The

young German who shampooed me kept ejaculating "Shocking - shocking" at the
young German who shampooed me kept ejaculating Shocking  - shooking  at the

way my hair fell out. Just after we got back in the Beduin, a steam dahabya 
way my fair fell out  Just after we got back in the Beduin  a steam dahaliya

flying many flags,   the Stars and Stripes among them, came steaming down the
lying  many flags  , the Stars and Stripes among them  came steaming down the

river and people waved to us from the deck, and we knew it was the Serapis
river and people waved to us from the deck  and we know it was the Serapis

with Emily Morgan and Miss Nelson and the rest of the Tuck party.   And as
with Emily Morgan and Miss Nelson and the rest of the Tuck party  . And as

soon as we could after luncheon we rowed over and called. And it was a joy
soon as we could after lunchoun we                               was a jay

indeed to see those two dear things.   They are coming to tea tomorrow
indeed to see those two dear things  . They are coming to tea tomorrow

afternoon, which will make Christmas seem a little more like Christmas. Artin
afternoon  hutch will make Christmas scom a little more like Christmas  Artin

Pasha has got our party somewhat confused.      I've had a note from him
Pasha has got our party somewhat confus    ed . I've had a note from him

addressed to "Mrs. Burton"        and beginning "My dear Mrs. Burton". Harry 
addressed to "     Mes     Button and beginning My  dear Mrs  .        Button

       came over from the valley this afternoon to spend Christmas,   and I
" Racy came over tion the valley this afternoon to spend Christmas  , and I

asked him if I were his mother or if he had married me for            my
asked him if I were his mother or if he had married me for mod me for my

money.   He was terribly teased. 14
money  . He was terribly leased    

The sailors - our sailors - have been rejoicing this evening, sitting in a
The sailors - our sailors . have been rejoicing this evening  sitting in a

circle on the lower deck singing songs that sounded like heathen incantations
circle on the lower deck singing songs that sounded like heathen incantations

- all this because Cousin Theodore has given them a sheep for a feast
- all this because Cousin Theodore has given them a sheep for a feast

tomorrow.   I would like to hear someone sing Heilige Nacht.   The glory of
tomorrow  . I would like to hear someone sing Follige Nacht  . The glory of

the Lord is filling the heavens. There is such moonlight as New England never
the Lord is filing  the heavens  There is such moonlight in New England never

has known. Christmas Night, 1912      - It's rather queer that snow and Yule
has know   Christmas Nich   ,    1012 - It's rather queer that snow and Yule

logs and holly should be so essentially a part of the ideal Christmas to the
logs and bully should be so essentially a part of the Ideal Christmas in the

Anglo-Saxon mind,      when of course the real Christmas surroundings are like
Anglo       Saxon mind when of course the real Christmas surroundings are like

Doris's and Emily's and mine today - delicious sunshine and warmth,   tropical
Doris's and Emily's and mine today - delicious sunshine and warmth  , tropical

vegetation,   arid desert stretches. Just for today I would gladly have
vegetation  , arid desert stretches  Just for today   would gladly have

exchanged all this for the snow and the Yule log and Home. We had our presents
exchanged al  this for the snow and the Yule log and there We had one presents

before and at breakfast, and when the dining room table was cleared the
below  and at breakfast  and when the dining room table was cleared the

ceremony of giving the crew and inside servants (there       are 23 of these,
ceremony of giving the crew and inside servants (      there are 27 of these 

  mostly Nubians)   their Christmas,   took place. Cousin Theodore and Cousin
, mostly Nubians  ) their Christmas  , took place  Cousin Theodore and Cousin

Emma sat at the table, Doris       and I on the divan,   and Jones was master
Imma wat at the table  ,     boris and I on the road   , and Jones was In    

of ceremonies. They came in one by one, kissed our hands, said "Kulle sana 
                            one by one  kissed our hands  said "      Kille

w'uita taiyib" (a    Happy New Year to you),  each received              
same   white   tayib "     (   a    Ha master of   ceremonies . They came

        a white shawl, a box of cigarettes,                                a
ectived a white shawl  a box of cigaret     Pay New Year to you ) each tes a

bag of nuts and candy and some money. When it was over with they gathered on
bag of nuts and candy and some money              over with they gathered on

the deck and shouted "Hip, hip, hip, Hooray!          Tank you,   tank you,
the deck and shouted "     Ifrp hip  hip     , Hooray Tank you  , tank you 

tank you!"     And the rest of us washed our hands in dioxygen. Doris and
and  you   ! " And the rest of us washed our hands in dionys    Doris and

Emily and I went to the little white stucco English church, which stands at
Emily and I want in the little white stucco English church  which stands at

the back of the Luxor Hotel gardens,   walking among palms and acacias and
the back of the Luxor Hotel gardens  , walking among palms and acuties and

other lovely things to get to it, and arriving in time to see an Arab give the
other lovely things to get to it  in           in time to see an Arab give the

final vigorous rings to the outside bell. The church was trimmed with palms
final vigorous rings to the                          was trimmed with pains

and poinsettias,   and of course there was the dear old service and the joyful
and poinsettias  , and of course there was the dear old service and the joyful

Christmas hymns,  and a quite unusual thrill at the prayer for "The President
Christmas touring and a nice  unused  chill  at the prever for The  President

of the United States"   even though he was tacked on at the tail end of the
of the United States  " even though he was tacked on at the will end of the

Royal Family. Doris and I brought Harry Burton and Mr. Crane back in the
PATTY         Doris and I brought Harry Burton and Mis Crane back in the

felucca to have luncheon with us, and the Beduin looked more that ordinarily
felucca to have luncheon with us  and the Beduin looked more that ordinarily

beautiful in her gala dress of many flags. Mr.      Crane is an artist and son
beautiful in her gala dress of many flags  .   Mr . Crane is an artist and son

of the better known Walter Crane,   a very nice fellow and with a decided
of the better known Water  Crane  , a very nice fellow and with a decided

sense of humor,   though not as constantly as amusing as Harry  Burton.   We
sense of humor  , though not as constantly    amusing as Ilarry Burton  . We

had a gay luncheon,   and when the young men had departed for the other side
had a gay luncheon  , and when the                        for the other side

of the river,   Doris and I were free to read our fine crop of letters, and we
of the river  , Doris and I were free                       of leters   and we

did  it   with     a        ravenous appetite. At four the Sea&  with all her
have will neverous appetite at                    four the stops with at  the

flags flying steamed                           up near us and her felucca
does  not    to      read our fine crop teamed up      us and her felucca

brought over I\r. and Mrs. Tuck, Major Curley, _Miss Nelson and Emily - and
brought over      and Mrs  Tuck  Major Curley  Miss  Nelson and Emily - and

you can all of you easily imagine what it meant to Doris and me to have even
you can all of you casily imagine what it meant to Doris and me to have even

an hour of Miss Nelson and Emily.   We took the whole party all over the
   hour of Miss Nelson and Emily  . We took the whole party all over the

Beduin and they were crazy about it.   Then we had tea on deck with the Nile
Beduin and they were crazy about it  . Then we had tea on deck with the Nile

flowing by us on one side and our splendid plain and   mountains on the other
Blowing by us on one side and our splendid plain Bless leave     ,           

and sunshine and beauty everywhere. We could not bear to have our guests
                                                                        

leave, but they left, and then Cousin Theodore and I    took a walk on the
       but they left  and then Cousin theodore and look      a walk on the

sands with the sunset in our faces,   and had to hurry back to escape the
sands with the sunset in our faces  , and had to hurry buck to escape the

sudden mists that always arrive at sundown.   We found Nicoll,   the English
sudden mists that always arrive at sundown  . We found Nicol   , the English

artist who paints such exquisite pictures of Egypt, calling on us.   I liked
artist who pairs  such exquisite pictures of Egypt  calling on us  . I liked

him immensely.   He was asked to stay to dine,   but had a previous
him immensely  . He was asked to stay to dive  , but had a previous

engagement.   So we four dined alone and had so much to eat before the turkey
engageinent . So we four dined alone and had so much to cat before the turkey

arrived that he was sent off       untouched. But we   had to nibble at the
arrived that he was sent Untouched            But i've had to Noble  at the

plum pudding. I       pledged you all in champagne, and later on saw one of
plum pudding  blessed         you al  in champagne  and love  on sat are of

the crew dancing a sort of double shuffle with the bottle balanced on his
the crew dancing a sort of double shuffle with the buttie balanced on his

head. It has been a lovely Christmas in its queer way, but Emily and the
head  I  has been a lovely Christmas in its queer way  but Emily and the

letters and remembrances from home were far and away the best part of it.
letters and remembrances from home were fur and away the best part of it 

Thursday.   December 26.   The Serapis went on her way to Cairo this morning.
Thursday  , December 26  . The Scruple west on her way to Cairo this morning 

It is a very great disappointment to Doris and me that they did not stay long
It is a very great disappointment to Don's and me that they did not stay long

enough for us to do things together - and to Emily and Miss Nelson too. But
enough for us to do things together   and to Emily and Miss Nelson too  But

they are, at present,   no more the arbiters of their destinies 15
they are  at present  , no more the arbiters of their destinies   

than we are of ours. About eleven Doris and I mounted our gallant donkeys and
than we are of ours  About eleven Davis and I mounted our gallant donkeys and

with Malimond and Nobi running beside us we were off for the Colossi of
with Malimond and Not  running beside us we were off for the Colossi of

Memnon. Over the sands winding among deep hollows where the Nile water is
Mention Over the sands winding among doop hallows where the Nile water is

still undried,   along a path beaten hard by the feet of women bearing water
still undried  , along a path beaten hard by the foot of Women bearing water

jars,   between garden patches,   along deep cuts, jumping little ditches,  
jars  , between garden patches  , along deep cuts  jumping little ditches  ,

and finally straight on towards those glaring mountains that make me catch my 
and finally straight on towards those glaring mountains that make me carol jay

breath with delight whenever I look at them - over a dusty road with a cane
breath with delight Whenever I look at them - over a dusty road with a cane

field on the left and a train of fifty camels waiting to be loaded; and on the
field on the left and a train of fifty camel  Waiting to be loaded  and on the

right a field presumably meant to be of winter wheat but really of crested
right a field presumably meant to be of winter when  but really    crested

larks filling the air with their sweet notes.   The crested larks and camels
larks filing  the air with their sweet notes  . The crested lurks and camels

absolutely ignored the Colossi of Memnon  and when we got close to them and
absolutely ignored the Colossi of Mention and when we got close to them and

found we didn't reach,   even on the backs of our chargers, to the tops of
found we didn't reach  , even on the backs of our chargers  in the tops of

their big toes we wished that we too might feel a fine crested camelian
their big thes we wished that we too might feel a fine crested camelias

indifference. Truly,         I sometimes get worn out with emotions in this
indifference  .      Truly , I sometimes get wom  out with emotions in this

land of mighty marvels. We rode on a little beyond the Colossi towards Medinet
land of mighty marvels  We rode on a little beyond the Colossi towards Medine 

Habu,   and an Arab who had never entered my life before held me up to beg me
Tabu  , and an Arab who had       entered my life before held me up to beg me

to take some scarabs back to the   Beduin to show Mr. Davis! "They are real,
to take s    show    MS   .  Davis !      "  They                  are real 

madam, as you see if only you look". "I     do not know",   I said fiercely,
madam  as you see if only you look   "  . I do not fiercely , the           

"the difference between real scarabs and imitation ones,   so it's not worth
     difference between real scarabs and imitation ones  , so it's not worth

while my looking".   We rode back in a fierce high noon      and the air was
while my looking   " We road back in a fierce tush noun noun and the an  was

simply heavenly.   As we galloped around the corner of a mud wall we almost
simply heavenly  . As we galloped                                          

collided with Mr. Crane and Mr. Carter on their way out to their diggings.  
                                                    out to their dissings  .

They looked almost like a parade, their donkeys were so trapped out in red  
They looked almost like a parade  their donkeys were so crapped out in youde

tassels. In     the afternoon I           went  over to Luxor with the usual
gallo    nation was operation infatuation Jones .                           

retinue of seven of the crew and Jones. One of the minor delights of this
                                        One of the minor delights of this

heavenly time I'm having is the being waited on hand and foot as if I were a
heaven                                                   foot as if I were a

Princess. I went to Luxor, then - to return to our muttons - to leave cards on
Princess  I went to Luxor  then   to                            leave cards on

some people at the Winter Palace and to do an errand or two.   I promised you
some people at the Winter Palace and to do an errand or wo   . I promised you

some time ago that I would not go on raving "about sunsets.   We've had
some time ago that I would not go on raving about  sunsets  . We've had

them     regularly every night, and with the rectitude of a lofty spirit I've
agularly           every night  and with the rectitude of a lofty spirit I've

kept silent about them. But you'll have to let me state the bare facts that
kept                        you'll have to let me state the bare facts that

coming back to the Beduin from Luxor this evening we were rowing into a
coming back to the Beduin from Luxor this ever    ,  were towing into a

brilliant orange that merged into rose color that throbbed up to the feet of
brilliant orange that merged into rose color that throbbed up to the fees of

the  Evening Star, while from the horizon flared great streamers of pale
Stag               while from the horizon flared great streamers of pale

green. Far  down  the   river behind us    the sky    and the      water 
with   snow white sails and   creamy walls of  houses and flashing lights

and      the     very air were of  the blue a sapphire would be if opaque,
gleaning against it   .   And  our                                        

with snow white sails and creamy walls of houses and flashing lights gleaming
with snow white sails and creamy walls of wend   of  the      blue   a       

against  it.   And our         right hand oars dipped into melted amethyst and
sapphire would be  If  opinion right hand oars dipped into melted amethyst wod

our left into liquid turquoise. I must stop now. If I write another sheet to
our left into liquid turquoise  I must stop now  if [ while another sheet to

this letter full well I know none of you would have the patience to read it.
this teller fill well I know none of you would have he  patience to read it 

"Kulle         sana w'inta taiyib"   to you all. With oceans of love from Mary
.      " Kulla sana winta  tayib   " to you all  With accans of love from     

January 3, 1913. West Bank-Luxor Dearest Adeline: - It's a whole week since
January 3  .     1913            Dearest Adeline  - It's a whole week since

I've written, so this letter will be reminiscent instead of journalistic like
I've written  so this letter will be reminiscent instead of journalistic like

the others. A week ago today we went out to the valley and stayed three days,
the others  A week ago today we went out to the valley and stayed three days 

  and though in some ways it reminded me of my  mining  life, in others it was
. and though in some ways it reminded me of any thinice life  in others it was

a unique experience. The House in the Valley is seven miles from the Beduin on
a unique experience  The House in the Valley is seven miles from the Bedun  on

the west bank. Cousin Theodore, Doris and Jones rode.   I meant to ride but at
the west bank  Cousin Theatom   Doris and Jones rode  . I meant to ride but at

the last moment found Cousin Emma didn't want to drive alone, so I drove with
the fast thome  drive alone  ,                                so I drove with

her in a sort of surrey thing drawn by two black mules and driven by a bandit
her in a sort of surrey thing craw  by two black mules and driven by a hantic

in baggy white trousers. First across the sands straight towards the
in bazar while trousers  First across the sands straight towards the

mountains, then at right angles along a ticklish shelving road on the edge of
mountains  then    right angles "       ticklish shelving road on the edge of

a very deep cut,   then a sharp turn towards the mountains again, through a
a very deep alt  , then a sharp turn Towards the mountains slain  through a

tiny biblical village with palm trees and a well, out again in a minute into
day  billies  village with palm trees and a well  out again In a whole  me  

the glare of the desert, and then on a hard white limestone road up to the
the state of the desert  and the  on a hand whit  one       road up to the

mountains and into the mouth of the valley. And     there my breath left me -
mountains and into the mouth of the valley  ,   and there my breath left me -

for it was like the 16
for it was like the   

wreck of a world. On     and on we drove through towering cliffs and amid a
wreck of a world  .  Out and on we drove through towering cliffs and amid a

titanic chaos of broken flints and splintered rock and fossil shells,     
titanic chaos of broken Hints  and splintered rock and fossil shells  wi s

with not even the memory of a green growing thing for miles upon miles. And
with not even the memory of a green growing thing for miles upon miles  And

then we came to a fork in the valley with a jutting ridge,   a mighty one
then we came to a fork in the valley with a jutting ridge  , a mighty one

between,   and to the left goes the Valley of the Tombs of the Kings and to
between  , and to the left goes the Valley of the Tombs of the Kings and to

the right the West Valley where Cousin Theodore's house is. It is a long, low
the right the West Valley whore Cousin Theodore's house is  It is a long  low

and plastered structure with a flat roof, like thousands in Mexico.   The
and plastered structure with a flat look  like thousands in Mexico  . The

dining room is at the front end and the sitting room at the far end, and
dining room is at the front end and the sitting room at the far end  and

between the two  runs a hall with four anchorites' cells for bedrooms opening
between the tive runs a hull with four anchorites  cells for bedrooms opening

off it.   Rough cement  floors,   rough plastered walls with little slits of
off it  . Rough convent floors  , rough plastered walls with little slits of

windows in the foot-and-a-half              thick walls. When we drew up in
windows in the foot            - and a half thick        When we drew up in

front of this residence slaves dashed out and kissed our hands and did our
front of this residence slaves dashed out and kissed our hands and did our

boots with a feather duster.   The rest of the party were hot on our heels.
boots with a feather duster  . The rest of the party were but on our heels 

Julius Caesar (Cousin Theodore's donkey - and a perfect devil) braying his
Julius Caesar Cousin  Theodore's donkey - and a perfect devil  braving his

head off. He  so loves the sound of his own voice that he brays all the time.
head off  Ite so loves the sound of his own voice that he brays all the line 

  Then we entered and took possession,   Harry Burton doing the honors.
. Then we entered and took possession  , Harry Burton doing the bootsy 

As      Cousin   Theodore's Manager of  Excavations he lives in the House in
collins toenails singer     offices and             he was      the House In

the Valley. He'd given up his room to me. "It      may smell of disinfectant,
the valey        given up his room to me  .   " It may smell of disinfectant 

  but it's all right - it doesn't mean anything except that the last chap died
, but it's all right - it doesn't mean anything except that the last chap dict

here,   you know",     he explained. A short time before we arrived they had
here  . you know   " , he explained  a short time before we arrived they had

killed a five foot snake by the great water jars in the shed near the front
killed a five foot stake by the great water jars in the shut near the front

door,   and Doris found a deceased mouse in her wash basin. So I felt rather
door  , and Dori  found a deceased mouse in her wash basin  So I felt sacher

squeamish when I entered my cell after dark and wondered what I might possibly
squeamish when I entered my cell after dark and wondered what I might possibly

touch before I got the candles lighted; therefore when the whole box of
touch before I got the candies lighted  Therefore when the whole box of

matches flared off at once in my hand I most naturally shrieked. The nights
matches flared off at once in my hand I most naturally shrieked      nights

were wonderful,   the stars blazed so close you could almost pick them from
were wonderful  , the stars blazed so close you could almost pick them from

the velvet sky, the silence surpassed anything I've ever known -        no
he  velvet sky  he  silence surpassed saything I've ever known faintent   

faintest shadow of a sound except when a sudden gust of wind swept past, and
         shadow of a sound except when a sudden gust of wind swept past  and

was utterly gone, like the moan of a wild beast. And all night long a guard
was utterly gone  like the moan of a wild beast          night lone a guard

with a rifle stood at the front corner of the house to ward off any wandering
with a tille stood at the front corner of the house to ward off any wandering

sons of the desert who might drop into the valley by the jackal trails leading
one  of the desert who might drop into the valley by the jackal trails leading

over the cliffs.   The next morning we had a sort of royal progress into the
over the cliffs  . The next morning we had a sort of royal progress into the

valley of the Tombs - Cousin Theodore on the vociferating  Julius, Cousin Emma
valley of the Tombs - Cousin Theodore on the vociferationg Julius  Cousin Emma

in a carrying chair with two bearers, Doris and Jones and I   on   foot. That
in a carrying chair with two bearers  Doris and Jones and Ion foot       That

morning was one of the sensations of Doris's and my lives,   but I won't bore
morning way one of the sensations of Doris's and my lives  , but I won't bore

you with descriptions, for is it not all written in the Books of Belzoni,
you with descriptions  for is it not all written in the Books of Below   

Weigall, Budge, Dans, Petrie and others?   Aside from all the wonder and
Weirall  Budge  Dans  Petrie and others  ? Aside from all the wonder and

beauty and impressiveness that we saw there was the fun of sailing by groups
beauty and impressiveness that we sat there was     fun of sailing by groups

of staring tourists into a place   labelled largely "No Admittance" and       
of staring tourists into a labeled          largely "   No          Admittance

entering      the tomb   of Siphtah where Cousin T. is doing the only
International the valley ,                                           

excavating at present going on in the valley. It was very dusty and very dark
                                              It was very dusty and very dark

except in flashes where the light was thrown in by a mirror at the mouth. And
except                                               mirror at the mouth  And

a procession of children were carrying out the debris in baskets.   The thing
a procession of children were carrying out the debris in baskets  . The thing

I     hate in this country is the way they work the children. At Karnak
there      in this country is the way they work the children  At Karnak

overseers stand by with long-lashed whips,                but our overseer is
overseers stand by with long        -      lashed whips , but our overseas is

not      permitted a whip.   That afternoon I took a walk by     myself,
not perm permitted a whip  . That afternoon I took a walk myself        

climbing a ridge and going down into a third valley and up another ridge.  
climbing a ridge and going down into a third valley and up another ridge  .

The sun had set and the silence was dreadful, and suddenly a horror of the
The             and the silence was dreadful  and suddenly a horror of the

desert (quite different           from ordinary fear) seized me and I fled
desert (      quite     d Iferent from ordinary fear  seized me and I fled

back to the house,   where I was seriously taken to task for wandering about
back to the house  , where I was seriously taken to task for wandering about

by myself. Sunday afternoon Cousin T., Doris and I made an expedition up our
by myself  Sunday afternoon Cousin T   Doris and I made an expedition up our

own west valley,   and anything more superb, austere and overpowering I think
own wes  valley  , and anything more supert  austere and overpowering I think

I've never seen. Two or three of the Kings elected to be buried there,      
                              of the Kings decided to be b      cried  there

and I wonder all of them didn't; it's so much more spectacular and imperial
and I wonder at  of them didn't  it's so much more spectacular and imperial

than the other valley. Monday morning immediately after breakfast Cousin
than the other valley  Monday morning Immediately after breakfast Cousin

Emma   and I departed,   the others reluctantly promising to follow the next
Erarea and I departed  , the others reluctant   promising to follow the next

day.   And wasn't it good to get back to the Beduin and bath tubs and clean
day  . And wasn't it good to get back to the Beduin and bath tubs and Jean 

clothes, and the haunting river with its palm trees and gardens on the Luxor
clothes  and the hunting  river with its palm trees and gardens on the Luxor

side,   and the desert all the more beautiful for being retired to the
side  , and the .                   beautiful for being retired to the

background. 17
background    

Tuesday morning Cousin Emma  and I went across in the felucca and paid Mr.
Tuesday morning Cousin Enuna and I went across in the felucca and paid Mr 

Whymper         a visit at the Winter Palace and saw his last picture - a
.       Whimper a visit at the Winter Palace and saw his last picture - a

thing of beauty - birds on a sand bar, with all the melted opal tints that we
thing of beauty - birds on a sand har  with all the melted opal tines that we

so often saw in the atmosphere as we came   up the river from Cairo. He also
so often saw in the atmosphere as we cattle up the river from Cairo  It also

showed us a splendid study of a vulture,   looking almost as noble as an eagle
showed us a splendid study of a vulture  , looking almost as noble as an eagle

as he clasped a lonely crag. "Close to the sun in lonely lands," I     
as he clasped a and    her   love   to the wes is lonely bad     quoted

quoted,        and Mr. Whymper,   who is a very sudden and enthusiastic
As      we win and Mir Whisper  , who is a very sudden                 

person, almost clasped me - "No! you don't know that!    How wonderful! Dear
                                 you don't Old  Tennyson !   "          he  

old     Tennyson!" he shouted, and then together we  bellowed the whole verse.
shouted ,                      and then together the bellowed the whole verse 

From Whymper we proceeded to call on the Contessa Contadone who, haply, was
From Whimper we proceeded to call on the Contessa Contadone who  haply  was

out.   She came to tea yesterday bringing a tired-l000king           young
out  . She came to tea yesterd   bringing a tired          - looking young

Englishman named Tremaine,   whom she always has in tow, with her. We found
Englishman named Tremaine  , whom she always has in tory hey  !    We found

them here when we got back from Medinet Habu.   What ruins those are - what
them here when we get back Grow Medinet Habu  . What ruins those are - what

color and  carving! Each place we go to seems more beautiful and more
color will carving  Loch place we go to seems more beautiful and more

incomprehensible than the last.   This afternoon Cousin T.,   Doris and I rode
incomprehensible than the last  . This afternoon Cousin T   . Doris and       

out to Der-el-Bahri. The start was tumultuous and I almost gave up the
                                              and I almost gave up the

expedition for the donkeys behaved so awfully.   Even the heretofore
expedition for the donkeys behaved so awfully  , Even the           

irreproachable Sugar was suddenly possessed of Satan. Doris vows that at one
                         suddenly possessed of Satan  bolts Vows that at one

time all three donkey boys and two of     the crew were engaged         in
like all Three onto   her  and to  critic who      were changedin icons in

holding me    on. It  may       be true. Personally I never can remember
on      ithas to  ine ersonally                     I never can remember

details when a cyclone has struck me.   But Der-el-Bahri         with its
details when a eveline has struck the . But Der          - Bahri with its

ruins of the mortuary temples of Queen  Hatshepsut and King Mentuhotep, with
ruins of the mortuary temples of Queens timships   and king Mensubstep  with

their entirely different character from the other ruins we've seen,   with
their entire   different character from the other ruins we've seen  , with

their exquisite columns and cloister effects and the very beautiful view from
their exquisite columns and cloister effects and the very beautiful view from

their site high up on the base of the Libyan ranges, a view over the desert,
their site high up on the base of the Libyan raises  a view over the desert 

across the Nile and to Karnak beyond - all this was worth persevering for.
across the Nile and to Kamak  beyond - all this was worth persevering for 

Saturday. January 4. This is coming to an abrupt close. I'm suffering tonight
Saturday  January 4. Thi     coming to an abrupt close  .   suffering tonight

from an inexplicable revulsion of feeling. I would rather - as I did - watch
from an inexplicable revision  of focking  I would rather - as I did . watch

the row of kingfishers who practically live on our cable and are too funny for
the row of longtishers who practically live    our cable and are too funny for

words - than     see the most beautiful temple in all Egypt. And I would just
words - tar  Can see the most beautiful temple in all Egypt  And I would just

as soon drop all my few jewels into the Nile as to read about Karnak or Luxor
as soon drop all my for jewels into the Nile as to read about Kamak  or Luxor

or the Valley of the Tombs or anything in the world that's instructive.   I'm
or the Valley of the Tombs or anything in the world that's instructive  . I'm

very cross because I've got neuralgia in my scalp - of all places - and I've
very cross because I've got neuralgia in my scale - of all plus     and I've

torn my one and only decent hat  to pieces and can't get it together again,
fora my one and only decent till to pieces and can't get it together again 

and you can't buy   a hat this side of Cairo. So - well beloved friends - I'll
and you can't buy's   hat this side of Cairo  So   well beloved friends . I'll

bid you good-night - and in some happier frame of mind bid you good-morrow.
bid you goodnight  - and in some happier Game  of mind bid you good        

Your   devoted Mary Sunday. January 5. 1913. Luxor Dearest Adeline: - It's
morrow Sunday  ,            January S  ,     1913  Adding  :          It's

been a beautiful day - and anything more trite than that observation in this
been a beautiful day - and anything more trite than that observation in this

land could not be invented. Have I said anything about the climate?   It's the
land could not be invented  Have I said anything about the climate  ? It's the

one, for winter, that I've dreamed of all my life.   You can count, with
one  for winter       I've dreamed of all my life  . You can count  with

almost absolute certainty upon waking up every day to sunshine.   You can cook
almost absolute certainty upon waking up eve   day to sunshine  . You can cook

to your heart's content by sitting in it, or be as cool as you like by moving
to your heart's content by sitting in it  or be as cool in you like by moving

into the shade. The one thing you         have to be careful about is to
into the shade  The one thing you ing you have to be careful about is to

always have a coat or wrap within reach. Doris and I,   accompanied by Amelie
always have a coal or wrap within reach  Doris and I  , accompanied by Amelie

(who     is French Protestant) went to church this morning, arriving in ample
(    who is French Protestant  went to church this morning  living   in ample

time to admire the bougainvillia spreading its splendid blossoms all over the
time to admire the bougainvillea spreading its splendid blossoms all over the

white facade of the little chapel.   That is, I had time to admire it - Doris
White facade of the little chapel  . That is  I had time to admire it . Doris

dislikes it because of its color.   But I maintain that magenta suits the
dislikes it because of it  color  . But I maintain that magenta suits the

tropics. We were also in ample time to have our tympanums cracked by the bell
troples     were also in ample time to have our mpanums   tracked by the bell

which a native was jangling with primitive enthusiasm.   The rector looks
which a halive was jangling with primitive enthusiasm  , The restor looks

awfully ill and races through the service at that breakneck speed that is so
awfully ill and races through the service at that breakneck speed that is so

trying to my slow 18
losing to my slow   

nature.   This afternoon Cousin T., Doris and I took a long ride through
nature  . This afternoon Cousin I   Dosis and I look a long ride through

larger tracts of cultivated land than we had previously seen. Steam ploughs
larger tracts of cultivated land than we had previously seen  Steam ploughs

were at work and the irrigating ditches were cemented and it all looked very
were at work and the irritating ditches were cemented and it all looked very

modern and progressive and much less interesting and    picturesque. Monday.
modern and progressive and much less interesting Monday ,                   

January 6.   This has been a lovely day (of course)          but not an
January 6  . This has been a lovely day (   of      course ) but not an

eventful one. Doris and I went over to Luxor in the morning and I    had     
eventful one  Doris and        over to Live  in the movie   and that lacticis

-      with comforting results - to my neuralgic scalp.   Then I sat for a
allied with confusing  cals      to my nouralgic scalp  . Then I sat for a

little while on the sunny rear terrace of the Winter Palace and talked to Mr.
While        on the sammy fear terrace of the Winter Palace     talked to Mr 

  and Mrs. Davenport of Lincoln, Mass.,   while Doris was talking to some
. and Mrs  Davenport of Lincoln  Mass   , while Doris was talking to some

English                                               people on the front
English afternoon and tried to prolong the life of my people on the front

terrace.   I stayed at home in the afternoon and tried to prolong the life of
terrace  . I stayed at home in the sficmoon  and tried to prolong the life of

my stockings,   until I had to cram them all into my mending bag on the advent
my stockings  , until I had to cram them all into my                the Von   

of Baron and Baroness von Bissing and Dr. Hermann Kees for tea.   They came
                          Bissing and Or  Hermann Kees for tea  . They came

along the sands from their dahabya Aziz, which is lying below us on the same
along the sands from their dababys Aziz  which is lying below us on the same

side of the river.   The Baroness is quite charming and speaks English
side of the river  . The Baroness is quite charming and speak  English

beautifully.   The Baron is a sort of German translation of Leonard Bacon.  
beautifully  . The Baron is a sort of German translation of Leonard Bacon  .

He pounces on your hand and kisses it, is never still a minute,   talks
He pounces on your hand and kisses it  is never still a minute  , talks

excitedly and amusingly, is immensely clever, gulps down cup after cup of tea
excitedly and amusingly  is immensely clever  gulps down cup after cup of tea

and bolts his food with the rapidity of chain lightning. Dr. Kees may be and
and bolts his food with the rapidity of chain lightning      Kees may be and

probably is possessed of vast learning,   but he is afraid to speak English
probably is possessed of vast learning  , but he is afraid to speak English

which he evidently understands,   and his appearance is all that there is of
which he evidently understands  , and his appearance is all that there is of

callowness - he looks as though "de eggshell not yet off is back". Wednesday,
callowness - he looks as though de  eggshell not yet off is back   Wednesday 

January 8. Yesterday was a day too crowded for any epistolary efforts on my
January a  question  was a de  los crowded for an  cilla      eforts  on my

part. It began immediately after breakfast with a call from a sailing dahabya 
fort  It began immediately after                a call from a sailing dahaby's

which, from lack of wind, had paused just above us.   Its occupants, a Mr. and
which  from lack of wind  had paused just above us  , Its occupants  i Mir and

Mrs. Lawrence and a Mr. and Mrs. Pope, were crazy to meet Cousin Theodore,  
Mrs  Lawrence and a Mer and More Pope  Were crazy to meet Cousin Theodore  ,

so they called. We liked them.   They were very "plain Americans"             
so they called  We liked them  . They Were very "      plain      . American "

from Ohio,   and took liberties with our mother tongue,   but they were
from Ohio  , and took liberties with our mother tongue  , but they were

awfully nice. Mr. Pope explained to me                                    
awfully nice      Pope explained to be " never had been a historian " When

     apologetically that he knew nothing whatever about Egyptian things as he
they apologetically that he knew nothing whatever about Egyptian things as   

"never had been a historian". When they had departed we, all four, went across
       had                                  departed we  all four  went across

the river in      the felucca, the others stopping at Mr. Nicolls'        
the river felucca ,            the others stopping at Mr  .        Nicol's

dahabya to see his lovely pictures, and I going on to Luxor for a fitting of a
dahabya to see his lovely pictures  and I going on to Luxor for a lifting of a

blouse which is being made for me by a person who advertises herself as
blouse which is being made for me by a person who advertises herself as

"Ancient dressmaker to the Queen of Holland". Harry Burton came over from the
Ancient  dressmaker to the Queen of HO        Harry Burton came over from the

valley and lunched with us and in the afternoon we all proceeded to Medinet
valley and funched with us and in the afternoon we all proceeded to Medine 

Habu to gaze upon the site where Cousin T. means to dig next. The  others
Habu to gaze upon the site where Cousin I  means to dig next  rode ,     

rode, but Cousin Emma  and I drove in a sand cart,   a low hung, one-seated,
      but Cousin times and I drove in a sand cart  , a low hung  one        

two-wheeled cart,                       the tires of the wheels being as broad
-           scared , two - wheeled carl the tires of the whols  being as broad

as those of a motor car.   A white mule was our steed,   I held the reins,  
as those of a motor car  . A white male was our stood  , I hold the reiss  ,

and the driver and one of our sailors careered  along beside us. I thought it
and the driver and one of our suitors curetired alone beside us  I thought it

was fun.   Cousin Emma thought it was awful, and vowed that never again would
was fun  . Cousin Emma thought it was awful  and vowed that never again would

she get into that kind of vehicle. It is the Coptic ruins adjoining Medinet
she get into that kind of vehicle  It is the Coptic rains adjoining Medinet

Habu that we mean to excavate, and while we were wandering about the appalling
Habu that we mean to excavate  and while we were wandering about the appalling

masses of debris a strong wind sprang up, and we got a taste of what a
masses of debris a strong wind sprang up  and we got a taste of What a

sandstorm can be like. We made a frantic dash for home,   and through a
sandstorm can be like  We made a frantic dash for home  , and through a

misunderstanding Doris got left behind, and when I discovered it I had five
misunderstanding Don's got left behind  and when I discovered it I had five

thousand fits.   When we reached the dahabya Jones' stern inquiry "Where is
thousand fits  . When we reached the lahabra Jones  stern inquiry where  is

Miss Doris?"   was the final straw. I'm afraid my voice rose almost to a    
Mis  Doris   , was the Soul  straw  I'm afraid my voice I'm  afraid my voice

shriek as  I said "Nobi wouldn't dare not to take care of her!" (Nobi is her
ros    boy )                                                                

donkey boy.) A sailor was instantly dispatched on a steed and Doris says he
             A sailor was instantly dispatched on a steed and Don's says he

nearly rent Nobi limb from limb when he finally met them, and it was in no way
nearly rent Mobi link from limb when he finally met them  and it was in no way

poor Nobi's fault. Baths and evening clothes restored our poise, and Doris and
poor Nobi's fault  Baths and evening clothes restored our poise  and Don's wid

I made our first plunge into Luxor society. Mr.  and Mrs. Garret Pier,
I made our first and    Mrs  .     Garret   Pies ,                    

fascinating Americans stopping at the Winter Palace,   had invited us to dine
fascinating Americans stopping at the Winter Palace  , had invited us to live

and stay for a dance. And what an entrancing way to go to dinner! We stepped
and stay for a dance  And what an entrancing way to go to dinner  We stepped

19
  

into the immaculate felucca,   and skimmed down the starlit river, with six  
Into the Immaculate felucca  , and skimmed crum the starlit river  ,    which

    white turbans bowing rhythmically before us as the men bent to their oars.
sis white turbans bowing rythmically  before us as the mea bent to their ours 

  Two of them,   carrying lanterns,   escorted us from the landing to the
. Two of them  , carrying lantamus  , escorted is from the landing to the

hotel entrance and we found them standing like statues awaiting us when we
hotel entrance and we found them standing like statues waiting  us when we

re-emerged in the middle of the night.   We had a lovely time. Doris was much
re-emerged in the middle of the right  . We had a lovely time  Davis was much

entertained by amusing young Englishmen,   some of whom danced well, and I
entertained by amusing going Englishinen , some of whom danced well  and I

enjoyed myself enormously talking to some people and watching others. The
enjoyed myself enormously talking to some people and watching others  The

Contessa was there looking as ghastly as a clown at a circus. "They say" that
Contessa was there looking is ghastly as a clown at a They    say   "    that

last year she       had yellow hair and a red face. This year she      is     
last year she ) She had yellow bur  and a red face  for  her  divorced husband

in mourning for her divorced husband (who     was, very properly, shot a short
(  who      was ,   ve       ry      properly ,                   shot a short

time ago)   so now her hair is black and her face whitewashed. A young
time ago  ) so how her !                                       A young

Englishman, who evidently hates her,   told Doris that she was the deplorable
Englishman  who evidently bales her  , told Doris that she was the deplorable

kind of elderly female who loves to have a phalanx of boys about her.   As I'm
kind of elderly female who loves to have a phalanx of bays about har  , As I'm

that kind myself I'm beginning to think I may like her when I really know her.
that Find myself I'm beginning to think I may like her when   really know hel 

She has invited me to ride with her some time. This afternoon Doris and I rode
She has indeed  me do      with her some five  This afternoon Doris and I rode

to our beloved Karnak. All Luxor watched our start and small wonder, for there
to our beloved Kamak                                                          

were nine men - six of the crew,   two donkey boys and Jones trying to saddle
                six of the crew  , two donkey boys and Jones trying to saddle

Sugar to suit me. This sounds as though I were getting fussy but I'm not. It's
Sugar to suit me  This sounds as though I were getting fussy but I'm not  It's

only that Sugar has such a small tummy that it seems impossible  to cinch  a
only that Sugar huy such a small funny that it seems ichpossible to clinch a

side saddle to him securely,   and it's misery to ride on a turned saddle.
side saddle to tim securely  , and it's misery To ride on a turned saddle 

Later Cousin Emma  and I teaed on the Aziz with the Von Bissings, whose table
Later Cousin I'mma and I level on the Aziz with the Van Bissings  whose cable

fairly tottered under the weight of things to eat. Thursday.   January 9. A
fairly tottered under the weight of things to cat  Thursday  , January &  A

perfectly delicious day - it really has seemed to me the best air we've had
perfectly delicious day - it really has seemed to me the best hir we've had

yet. Doris and I had a heavenly time this morning.   We rode out to the
     Doris and I had a heavenly time this morning  . We rode out to the

Ramesseum starting early and taking only Nobi and Malimond with us.   It was
Ramessoon starting earl  and laking only Nabi and Malimond with us  . It was

lovely there -in    a way I liked it better than any of the ruins we've seen -
lovely there -   in a way I liked it better than any of the ruins we've seen .

there were no tourists, no excavating going on - just silence and remoteness
there were no tourists  no excavating going on - just silence and           

and sunshine and the mighty past. Mr. Nicoll came over this afternoon late to
and sunshine and the mighty past      Nicoll came over this afternoon late to

say goodbye.   He starts back to England tomorrow.   We hear Lord      
say goodbye  . He starts back to England tomorrow  . We hear t    . and

Kitchener was in Luxor this afternoon. So near and I didn't see him! I have
Kitchener was in Luxor this                                                

said - and believed I meant it - that there wasn't a man in the world who
                                                     man in the world who

could make me marry him,   but if Lord Kitchener proposes to me  I    shall
could make me marry him  , but if Lord Kitchener proposes to met shat      

undoubtedly accept him.   Friday. January 10.   An exciting note from Harry
undoubtedly accep  Friday         January 10  . An exciting note from Harry

this morning before breakfast saying that he has unearthed a red  granite
this morning before breakfast saying that he has nearshed  a Text granite

sarcophagus,   that the lid has fallen off,   top downward,   but evidently
sarcophagus  , that the lid has fallen off  , top downward  , but evidently

has a recumbent figure carved upon it, and that it will take him about two
has a recumbent figure carved upon it  and that it will take him about two

days to remove the debris in which it is embedded. Cousin Theodore has lost
days to remove the debris in which it is embedded  Cousin Theodore has lost

all interest in the tomb) of Siphtah,   for some incomprehensible reason,  
all interest in the tomb  of Siphigh  , for some Incomprehensible reason  ,

and when he came in to breakfast      and I said "Isn't       it thrilling
and when he came in to break     fast and I said "      Isn't it thrilling

about the sarcophagus?" he merely said "Ha!" But later he announced that he
about the                                    But later he announced that he

thought he'd ride over to the valley tomorrow and take Doris with him - adding
thought he'd ride over to the Hey    tomorrow and take Doris with Jim   adding

that he didn't think that the discovery of the                               
that he didn't think that the discovery of the valley tomorrow and take Doris

     sarcophagus would prove to be of the least importance. Doris went to ride
will sarcophagus would prove to be of the least importance  Thins went to ride

by herself this afternoon, with a nautical escort, on the other side of the
by herself this afternoon  with a nautical escort  on the other side of the

river and I took a walk with Cousin Theodore on the sands.   In one place
river and I Look a walk with Cousin Theodore on the sands  , In one place

where there were some damp hollows about 40 or 50 wagtails were apparently
where there were some damp hollows about 40 or so wasfails were apparently

playing a game. It was charming to watch.   They would jump into the air and
playing a love  It was chanting to watch  . They would jump into the or  and

land lightly again with a little flutter of wings, run a few steps and then
land lightly again with a little Butter  of wines  to  a few steps and then

jump into the air. It was actually a gray afternoon with a heavy and
jump into the ya                     gray afternoon with a heavy and

depressing atmosphere. The Von Bissings lunched with us.   The Baron's
depressing atmosphere  The Van          lunched with us  . The Barons 

descriptions of things are unique. He     was telling about a tree he had seen
descriptions of things are unique  .  The was telling about a tree he had seen

in the morning that was "entirely ill and losing all its sings"!   The
in the morning that was entirely  !   and losing all its sings   " The

Baroness says their little girl (at    home in Munich)   always prefers to
Baroness says their little girl (   at home in Munich  ) always prefers to

speak English "because" the child says "to    speak German makes me so hot!" I
speak English because   the child says "   to speak German makes me so hot    

think that's a perfect description of the effect on one of a difficult tongue.
      that's a perfect description of the effect on one of a difficult        

Goodbye for this time, my dears all Your devoted Mary 20
                                    Your danced  Mary   

Monday. January 13. 1913.   West Bank,   Luxor Dearest Adeline; - Cousin
Monday  January 17  101   3 West Bank  . Luxor                    Cousin

Theodore and Doris are just back from the valley, having,        like the
Theodore and Doris are just back from the valley  ,       having like the

unreliable persons they are, stayed two days and nights when they said they
unreliable persons they are  stayed two days and nights when they said they

would only be away one.   Doris is wild about the sarcophagus,   and they both
would only be away one  . Doris is wild about the sarcophagus  , and they both

went into the tomb and saw it, though Cousin Emma  and I had given them cast
went into the town and saw it  though Calsin Emina and I had given them cast

iron orders not to,   fearing it would cave in on them and we miles away. The
iron orders not to  , fearing it would cave in on them and We miles away  the

sarcophagus   is of red granite, is 10   ft. 3    in. long, 5ft. 3 in. wide,
sarcophagusle    of red granite  is lots in  long so  in    side            

and 4 ft. 8  in.  deep. It is covered with inscriptions and bears the
and n a   in deep       It is covered with inscriptions and bears the

cartouches of Siphtah.   It is apparently in a perfect state of preservation.
cartouches of Sightah  . It is apparently in a perfect state of preservation 

The lid, which is lying beside it, face downward is 1 ft. 10 in. thick,   and
The lid  which is lying beside it  face downward is I f   10 in  thick  , and

evidently has a recumbent figure carved upon it. By lying on her tummy Doris
evidently has a recumbent figure carved upon it  By bing  on her bummy Dong 

managed to see the two great feathers, part of a wig and one ear. Everyone of
managed to see the two great feathers  part of a wig and one ear  Everyone of

us is now agonizing for fear the nose is broken.   The sarcophagus is filled
us is now agonizing for fear the none in broken  . The             is filled

with debris and we don't yet know whether it contains anything of value. A lot
with debris and we don't yet know whether it Contains anything of value  . lot

of broken alabaster objects have been unearthed in one corner of the chamber,
of broken alabaster objects have been unearthed in one corner of the chamber 

and Doris is the ostentatious owner of a small alabaster head with a lovely
and Doris is the ostentatious owner of a small alabaster head with a lovely

face which she saw dug out. Isn't it gorgeous that we are here with things
face which she saw dug out  Isn't it gorgeous that we are here with things

like that happening? I was    so anxious to hear their tidings (as well as
like that happening  ? excise )                                           

needing exercise) that I started out on foot this afternoon hoping to meet
                  that I started out on foot this                  to meet

them. Once in a while I do like to take a walk by myself, so I tried to slip
than  Once in a while I do like to take a walk by myself  so   tried to slip

off without being seen. But the eagle eye of the ferocious second captain
off without seen  .     But the eagle eye of the ferocious second captain

detected me, and in three minutes I was being escorted by Sala, of the crew,  
defected the and in                           escorted by Sale  of the crew  ,

with his heavy stick in his hand. We  ploughed through the sand till we
with his hear  stick in his hand  The ploughed through the sand till we

reached the little path running through cultivated stretches,   then at  
reached the little path running through cultivated stretches  , then rich

right angles along the broader path which answers for a highway and is ankle
      angles along the broader path which answers for a niche   and is walde

deep in dust, and where I had to sidestep donkeys laden with sugarcane and
deep in dust  and Where I had to sidestep donkeys laden with sugarcane and

camels    with mounted police; this for a long distance till I came to a tiny
camels wi with mounted police             long distance till I came to a tiny

mud village with an encircling wall, from the top of which a yellow dog
mud village with an encircling wall  from the top of which   yellow dog

desired greatly to hurl himself on top of my hat, then under some fine lebbek
desired greatly to hurt himself on top of my bat  then under some time lebbek

trees, across a bridge an up on the embankment overlooking the vast plain
trees  across a bridge an up on the embankment overlooking the vast plain

where the Colossi sit forever in state.    There were hordes   of     people
where the Colossi sit forever le dunkeying along (    Tourists mostly       

donkeying along (tourists mostly) but my party were nowhere in sight  so I   
                                  but my party were nowhere in sialis so I ru

  turned around and came  back again. I think white women never walk here,  
I turned around and cause beck said     think white on    never walk here  .

except along the waterfront at    Luxor,       and if  I'd  been "a efflant"
except along the water      front it     Luxor and int CI'd been 's efflane 

or    a rhinoceros I could hardly have attracted more attention.   It has been
"  of a rhinoceros I could hardly have attracted more attention  . It has been

a grey day and I've resented it most unreasonably.   One really ought to be
a grey day and I've resented it most unreasonably  . One really ought to be

able to bear one grey day out of forty sunshiny ones, particularly when
able to bear and grey day out of forty sunshiny ones  particularly when

reading the newspaper accounts of the frightful weather at home.   I am so
reading the newspaper accounts of the frightful weather at home  . I am so

sorry and so concerned for you all. The Fahnstocks of New York and Newport
sorry and so concerned for you      The Hahnstacks of New York and Newport

have tied up in their Dahabya Cheops just to the rear of us and their washing
have tied up in their Databya Cheops just to the red  of us and their washing

and ours have been flapping on the sands in sweet accord all day. Tuesday.
and ours have been tapping  on the sands in sweet accord all day  Tuesday 

January 14. Harry Burton came over from the valley early (Tuesday         is
January 14  Harry Burton came over from the valley carly (        Tuesday is

his holiday) and he and Doris and I crossed over to Luxor,   they to wander
his holiday  and be and Doris and I crossed over to Luxor  , they to wander

among the beauties of Luxor and I to be prosaically shampooed. The morning was
amway the beauties of Luxor and I To be practically shampooed  The looming was

so gorgeous I hated to spend it that way.   Harry lunched with us on the
so gorgeous I hated to spend it that way  . Harry lunched with us on the

Beduin and when he had, later, turned his donkey's nose toward the valley and
Beduin and when he had  of            his donkey's nose toward the valley and

Cousin Theodore had arisen from his nap,   the latter gentleman, Doris and I
Cousin Theodore had arisen from his nap  , the latter gentleman  Doits and I

rowed over to the Luxor landing,   mounted our donkeys and started up the
rowed over to the Luxor funding  , mounted our donkeys and started up the

river -a   ride new to me,   though the others had taken it once before.   But
river -  a ride now to me  , though the others had taken it once before  . But

we had barely started when Sugar's conduct became unfit for print. He   
we had barely started when Sugar's conduct became unfit for print  [  Te

nearly threw me down an embankment,   he brayed in a manner that out-Juliused
nearly sent  me down an embankment  , he brayed in a manner that out         

Julius,          and I simply got off and refused ever to ride him again.  
-juliused Julius and I simply got off and refused ever to ride him again  .

The others rode on and I descended the bank and sat in the felucca until they
The Others tode on and I descended the bank and sat in the felucca ni    thay

returned. 21
returned    

The felucca  had, according to orders,   moved up stream till directly
The foliages had  according to orders  . moved up stream will directly

opposite the dahabya,   and therefore was lying in front of the tiny native
opposite the dahabya  , and therefore was lying in front of the tiny native

village at which we gaze daily from the Beduin. While sitting there I had
village at which we gave daily from the Body    While sitting there I had

ample opportunity to observe native life,   some of which -like      Sugar's
ample opportunity to observe native life  , some of which -     like Sugar's

behavior - would sully these fair pages if chronicled thereon.   The most
behavior - would sully these fair pages if chronicled therenn  , The most

pleasing episode was the gambols of the children with two fuzzy          
pleasing episode was the gambols of the children with two fuzzy b . fuzzy

black puppies whose sombre fate it is to grow up into abhorrent, snarling,
black puppies whose sombre fate it is to grow up into abhorrent  snarling 

unloving and unloved Egyptian dogs.   Three men in black robes  and white
unloving and unloved Egyptian dogs  . Three men in black Pinged          

fringed shawls wound around their heads strode down the bank from  the hamlet
        shawls wound around their hands strode down the bank Groin the hamlet

with a small flock of sheep, which they picked up one by one and deposited in
with a small book  of sheep  which they picked up one by one and deposited in

a boat. The animals neither struggled nor uttered a bleat. Presently in a sort
a heat  The animals aeither struggled not uttered a bleat  Presently in a sort

of hurly  burly of dust,   barking dogs and shouting children, Cousin T. and
of lively burly of dust  , barking dogs and shouting children  Cousin T  and

Doris, with their escort of donkey boys and sailors, came down the bank,   and
Darts  with their escort of donkey buys and suitors  came down the bank  , and

we rowed home to the Beduin.   We found Mr. and Mrs.   Hardy and       
we wed   home to the Beduin  . We found Mur and Mrs  . Hardy and Do and

Dorothy Richardson teaing  with Cousin Emma.  Dorothy Richardson is the
Dorothy Richardson teaming with Ousin  Elmira Dorothy Richardson is his

daughter of Dr. Richardson of Athens and an uncommonly attractive young woman.
daughter of Or  Richardson of Athens and an incommonly attractive young woman 

Her uncle, Mr.   Hardy,          is an ex-diplomat            of sorts,   whom
IT  of     uncle ,      Mr Hardy is an ex          - diplomat of sorts  , whom

I suppose I ought to be able to place but can't. Wednesday, January 15. I
I           ought to be able to place but can    Is                     I

crossed over at ten o'clock to play tennis with Dorothy R. on the Winter
created over at ten o'clock to play tennis with Dorothy R  on the Winter

Palace court. We had two good sets before the sun grew too fervent,   and then
Palace court  We had two good sets before the sun grew too fervent  , and then

I left her to her letters and started home for mine. Wednesday is our best
I left her to hor letters and started home for mine  Wednesday is our best

mail day. En route to the felucca I paused at the chemists and whom should I
mail day  En route to the felucca ) used   at the chemists and what should I

encounter there,   buying a toothbrush, but Mrs.   Fred Morley, who  for two
encounter there  , buying a thorthrush  hut Mrs  . Fred Morley  with for the

or three years was my  next door neighbor (and     a very nice one) in 
or three years was ing next door helen    bor  and a very nice and  the

Colorado Springs! This afternoon Doris invited Dorothy Richardson to ride to
Springs  !        This afternoon Don's invited Dorothy Richardson to ride to

Karnak with her, and they were gone a long time and, Doris said, enjoyed
Kamak  with her  and they and                        Doris said  enjoyed

themselves vastly.   At tea time we had a visit from Sir Gaston and Lady
themselves vastly  . At tea time we had a visit from the common and cold

Maspero -    who came down the  river in the   Dahabya Miriam two days ago and
hardto  hold on  whom he   paid for   an order of      old                    

are to be here a couple of weeks. On Monday he is going over to the valley to
are to be here a couple of weeks  On Monday he is rolls over to the volley to

give The Last Word as to the importance of the red granite sarcophagus in the
live the Ward      as to the importance of the red granite sarcophagus in the

tomb of Siphtah. We are divided between our hopes that it will be so fine that
tomb of Si       We are divided een     our hopes that it will be so line that

Maspero will want it in the Cairo Museum,   and that it will fail by a hair's
Maspero will want it in the Cairo Museum  , and that I  will fail by a hait's

breadth to meet that requirement so that we can give it to the Metropolitan. I
breadth to most that requirement so that we can give it to the Metropolitan  I

forgot to record that Doris and I were again invited to dinner and the dance
forgot to record that Doris and I were again invited to dinner and the dance

last night at the Winter Palace. I declined, but Doris went and had a lovely
last night at the Winter Palace  I declined  but Doris well and had a lovely

time and met a lot of English officers. Thursday, January 16. Nothing of any
time and met a lot of English officers  Thursday  January 16  Nothing of any

particular interest to record today - just a lovely day, beginning pleasantly
particular interest to record today - just a lovely day  beginning pleasantly

with waffles and maple syrup,   and proceeding with a little too much wind and
with waffles and maple syrup  , and proceeding with a little too much mind and

therefore sand in the atmosphere.   We all stayed by the Beduin this morning
therefore sand in the atmosphere  . We all stayed by the Beduin this morning

but in the afternoon Doris and I took the felucca and went over to call on
but in the afternoon Don's and I took the felucca and went over to call on

Mrs. Morley.        She and her son Fritz are on the Egypt, one of Cook's new
Mrs  .       Morley She and her son litz  are on the Egypt  one of Cook's new

Nile steamers, and are here for a couple of days on their way up the river.  
Nile steamers  and are here for a couple of days on their way up the river  .

We took them over to the Winter Palace to show them those lovely gardens which
We took them over to the Winter palace to show them those loved  gardens which

have grown truly as if by magic in just four years.   Incidentally we saw the
have grown thing as if by magic in just four years  , Incidentally we saw the

little Egyptian gazelle buck looking so dainty  and charming it was hard to
little Happlian missile buck looking so drained and charting it was hard to

believe he had recently killed four of his own children.   We had tea on the
believe he had recently kiled  four of his own children  . We had tea on the

terrace before separating, the Morleys  to return to the Egypt and we to the
terrace before separating  the Iforlegs to return to he  Fast  and we to the

Beduin. If you could but see the stars from the vantage point of the Nile! Is
Bodyin     you could but see the stars from the vantage point of the Nile! is

there any other land I wonder where Sirius glitters with such a blue diamond
there any other land I wonder where Sirius glitters with such a blue diamond

light? Friday.          January 17. A lovely morning and a disappointing
light  ?       Friday , January ?   A lovely morning and a disappointing

afternoon. Shortly after ten Doris and I crossed over the river and went to
afternoon  Shortly after ten Doris and I crossed over the river and went to

see Mr. Whymper's pictures.            We attracted the attention of that
see Me  .         Whyper's  pictures . We attracted the attention of that

gentleman by the simple process of whistling outside his window, his room
gentleman by the simple process of whistling outside his window  his room

being on the ground floor of the Winter Palace.   I did the whistling during
being on the ground floor of the Winter Palace  , I did the whistling during

and in spite of the protests of my daughter, who seemed to think it a very
and in spite of the protests of my daughter  who seemed to think it a very

vulgar proceeding. It has the advantage of giving the 22
wileat proceeding  I  has the advantage of giving the   

victim no chance of escape if he happens to be sitting by the window, as this
lotim  so chance of escape if he happens to be sitting by the window  as this

one was.   We had a delightful half or three-quarters          of an hour with
one was  . We had a delightful half or three          quarters of an hour with

him while he tore up and down his room and ranted with a pipe in his mouth and
him while he tore up and down his room and ranted with a pipe in his mouth and

a checked cap on his head (except        when he periodically remembered and
a checked cup on his head (       except when he periodically membered   and

took it off only to clap it on again in a fit of abstraction). He mimicked
took it off only to clap it an again in a for of abstraction   )  Hen     

     people looking at pictures, and birds in their native haunts till you
Good people looking at pictures  and birds in their tative haunts fill you

could see the latter quite as distinctly as the former.   And he showed us
could see the latter quite as distinctly as the former  . And he showed us

some lovely things he had painted. One gem of Medamet is tearing me to pieces.
some lovely things he had pointed  One gom of Medamet is CarINE  me to pieces 

  Its price is just the sum of a check Mrs.   Thompson gave me for Christmas,
. Its price is just tie sum of a check Mics . Thompson gave me for Christmas 

  but a conflict rages in my "buzzum"          because I had determined to buy
, but a conflict rages in my "        buzzum " because I had determined to buy

with it some piece of      jewelry, and I can't make up my mind which could
with it some piece jewelry ,        and I can't make up my mind which could

give me the greater and more lasting satisfaction.   I have a barbaric
give me the greater and more lasting satisfaction  . I have a barbaric

fondness for jewels. This afternoon the donkeys were brought over to this side
fondness for jewe    tre                             brought over to this side

of the river and we three were to have ridden to Medinet Habu. But the wind
of the river and we three were to have                         But the wind

blew up and Cousin Theodore wouldn't go and made such a  row about Doris and
blew up and Cousin Theodore wouldn't go and made such ow     about Doris and

me going that we compromised and I stayed at home. And now Al Allah for this
me going that we compromised and I stayed at home  And now Al Allah for this

week, and dear love to you all. Mary Sunday night. January19. West Bank, Luxor
week  and dear love to you all  .    sunday night  January    to   one   Bank 

    Dearest Adeline: - We have with us again the moon silvering the surface of
Lux Dearest Adeline  . We have with us again the moon silvering the surface of

the Nile, turning the desert sands to snow and driving the dogs of Luxor mad.
the Nils  turning the desert sands to snow and driving the dogs of Luxor mud 

  At least I suppose it is the moon. It certainly is not joie de vivre which
. At least I suppose it is the moon  It certainly is not joie de vitre which

makes them bark, for the poor things haven't any.   But Kim flying up Orange
makes them bark  for the poor things haven't any  . But Kim tying  up Orange

Street frenziedly            barking at the victoria containing Mr. Justice$
Street frenzi     Frenziedly barking at the victoria containing Mr  .       

Hotchkiss (a           spectacle Kim always finds intolerable)   does not make
Justice   Hotclass ( 8 spectacle kin always finds intolerable  ) does not wake

more  of a row than each and every canine dwelling across the river on those
toone of a row then each and every on     dwelling across the river on those

nights when "the moon doth with delight look round her." Doris and I went to
nights when the  moon doth with delight look round her   Doris and I went to

church this lovely morning and managed to be late,   which was wholly
church this lovely morning and managed to be live  , which was wholly

unnecessary as we had been sitting on deck waiting for the time to get into
unnecessary as we had been sitting on deck waiting for the time to get into

the felucca and be    rowed over. Mr. Whymper         was also late and came
the felucca and towed over  .     Mr  .       Whimper was also late and came

racing after us as we neared the church door, and we all hurried in together
rating after us as we neared the church door  and we all hurried in together

without his having a chance to criticize our clothes. "What's          this
without his having a chance to criticise our clothes  .       " What's this

for?   And what's the meaning of that? Women wear such rummy  clothes!" He  
for  ? And what's the meaning of that' Women wear such runway clothes   ,  "

    observes in an amused  voice, usually when he meets us. When we got back
fic observes in an aroused voice  usually when he meets us  .    We got back

to the Beduin at luncheon time we found a very nice batch of letters from home
to the Beduin at luncheon time we found a very nice batch of letters from home

- yours of the 31st December,               Adeline dear,   for which so many,
- yours of the 31   91        In December , Adeline dear  , for which so many 

many thanks,   was one,   and another from Susan in Summerville giving
many thanks  , was one  , and another from Susan in Summerville giving

unstintingly the hallmark of her approval of Doris and my devotion to that
instillingty the hallmark of her approval of Dots  and my devotion to that

dear place. About half past four a cavalcade started for the valley. Cousin
dear place  About half past four a cavalcade started for the valley  Cousin

T.,   Doris and Jones mounted on their respective donkeys,   and my new donkey
I   . Doris and Jones mounted on heir  respective donkeys  , and my new donkey

loaded with luggage and groceries instead of with me. And tomorrow morning
loaded with luggage and groceries insled  he .    and     tomorrow morning

that matchless trio of Egyptologists - G. Maspero, T.                  and D.
that matchless trio of Egyptologists . G  .        Maspero , T . Davis and Do

Newberry - will pass final judgment upon the red granite sarcophagus in the
Newbury  - will pass final judgment upon the red granite sarcophagus in the

tomb of Siphtah. Cousin Emma and I heroically remained behind to dispense tea
tomb of Sightah  Cousin Emma and I heroically remained behind to dispense tea

and cakes to some people named Sprague from Buffalo,   who had brought letters
and cakes to some people named         from Buffalo  , who had brought letters

and whom Cousin T. refused to be bothered with. They brought a young niece,
and whom Cousin T  refused to be bothered with  They brought a young Need  

Alice Keatin  with them, whom I      liked. Mr.      Sprague reminded me
All   Meeting wil  them  whom Iliked ME     Sprofile requie  reminded me

somewhat of "The Man from home" and he certainly voiced my feelings when he
                                and he certainly voiced my feelings when he

said that in this land he was "completely            dazed by the enormous
said that in this land he was "           completely dazed by the enormous

amount of what he didn't know". 23
amount of what he didn't know     

My own doings today have been of the humblest compared with the brilliant
My own doing  today have been of the bumbles  compared wil  the brilliant

career of my daughter.   I spent the whole morning straightening out Cousin
career of my daughter  . I spent the whole morning straightening out Cousin

Theodore's bank account, and when I had finished my temperature was 120.  
Theodore's bunk account  and when I had finished my temperature was 120  .

After luncheon, to clear my brain and get some much needed exercise,   I went
After luncheon  to clear my brain and get some much needed exercise  , I went

forth on a long walk with a sailor at my heels.   I saw lovely things -
forth on a long walk with a sailor at my heels  . I saw lovely things  

stretches of sloping river bank clothed in bean plants blossoming forth in
stretches of sloping river bank clashed in bean plants blossoming for   in

stylish black and white flowers,   great fields of peas with their reddish
stylish black and while Dowers   , great fields of peas with their reddish

violet blooms,   some brown little boys entirely nude who dived frantically
violet blooms  , some brown little boys entirely nude who dived frantically

for their shabby garments when they saw me coming. Then home packed with fleas
for their shabby Bisments when they see me coming  then home packed with flows

which I had annexed in a native village through which my walk led me. On the
which I had annexed in a native village through which my walk led me  On the

deck of the Beduin in the lovely afternoon light,   I found the Contessa
dock of the Bedwin in the lovely aftemoon  light  , I found the Contessa

Contardone and Mr. Tremaine taking tea with Cousin Emma. Another guest arrived
Contordone and Mr  aking           tea with Cousin Emia  Another guest arrived

on a donkey, Dr. Alan Gardiner, an Englishman eminent for something but I
on a donkey  Dor Nan  Gardiner  an Englishman eminent for something but I

don't know what. All I know is that he's much too fat. And then our ears were
don't know that  All   know i  that he's much too fat  And then noe cars were

smitten     with an appalling though distant bray and we knew our family was
any     (on with an appalling though distant bray and we knew our family was

approaching. They looked like pictures of explorers returning      from the
approaching  They looked like pictures of explorers red       ning from the

heart of Africa as they came in single file across the sand the baggage donkey
heart of Africa as they came in single file across the said the baggage donkey

at the head. Doris was beaming, Maspero had pronounced the sarcophagus
at the lead  Doris was beaming  Mospero had pronounced the sarcophagus

superlatively fine -saying        there was only one other like it. He was
superlatively line -       saying there was only one other like it  He was

unwilling to have the lid (lying       face downward on the ground beside it)
unwilling to have the lid (      lying face downward on the ground beside It 

turned over  without the   utmost care and is sending to Cairo for the proper
)      Tuned ave     ndung                            to Cairo for the proper

apparatus. He  wants the sarcophagus for the Cairo Museum,   but he wants
apparatus  Ito went  the sarcophagus for the Cairo Museum  , but he wants

Cousin T. to pay for its transportation thither (he    says it will cost 250
Cousin T  to pay for its transportation thither (   he says it will cost 290

pounds sterling to do it) and Cousin T. does not at the moment feel inclined
pounds starting to do it  and Cousin I  does not it the moment for  Inclined

to do it. Maspero and Mr. Edgar,         Inspector of Excavations in Upper
to do it  Maspero and Mr  .      Edgar , Inspector of Excavations in Upper

Egypt,   lunched at the House in the Valley with Cousin T., Doris and Harry
Egypt  , lunched at                         with Cousin I   Doris and Harry

Burton,   and Doris says it was the treat of a       lifetime to     hear
Button  , and Doris says it was the trea  It deliver near     gaspar cals

Maspero talk, which he did from one o'clock till three-thirty.      He talked
              which he did for  the clock   I'll ones          that He talked

about Egypt and excavations, about Louis Quatorze brocades, about Chinese
about Kept  and excavations  ,     Louis Culture  brocades  about Chinese

porcelains,   about music, about the way the Cretan women dress their hair,
porcelains  , about music  about the way the Cretin women dress their hair 

about Sevres enamel, about        most of the beautiful and interesting things
,     thou   Scares  enamel above most of the           and interesting things

in the world.   Isn't it simply splendid that Doris could have had such  an
in the world  . Isn't it simply splendid that Doris could have had scull an

experience? Tuesday. January 21. This has been a day! Some of the narrative of
experience                       This has been a           of the narrative of

its events may tax your credulity but I shall tell things simply as I   saw  
its events may lax your freddie   but I shall you  can    simply as son tothe

them. The     Contessa invited Doris and me to go on a picnic to Medinet Habu,
the   contest          invited on    and me to go on a picnic to Modinet Habu 

  and we agreed to meet her out there at eleven o'clock.   We started gaily
, and we agreed to meat her out there at eleven o'clock  . We started wally

forth at ten with Nobi, Malimond and one of our sailors as escort.   Doris has
forth at ten with Nabi  Malimond and one of our sailors as escort  . Doris has

changed the name of her donkey (which       some idiot had christened
changed the name of fer donger (      which some idiot had christened

"Lovely-Sweet")             to Hermes,    because he goes so fast. My new
Lovely          - Sweet " ) to Itemties , because he goes so fast  My new

mount, Wadi Halfa,   the nefarious Sugar's successor, is a jewel, and I now
mount  Wadi Halfa  , the nefarious Sugar's successor  is a jewel  and I no 

see delectable ambles  spreading out on an almost endless vista before me. We
see delectable stables spreading out on an almost endless hello and          

had gone only a short distance when Doris had a nasty spill. Her  donkey 
                               when Done  and i Got   PRE    SIDE STEPPED

stepped in   a       pitfall (forgetting that he was supposed to have wings to
IN      THIS MORNING ONE                         was supposed to have winus to

his heels),   threw her, fell on her and kicked her - not viciously but in   
his heels   ) threw              her and lacked her - not viciously but inlos

his     struggles to get up. She declared she was not hurt and insisted on
angeles on           get up  the declared she was not ben  and headed   to

proceeding to the picnic. (A   lame shoulder for two days was the only bad
proceeding in the phone   (  A lame shoulder for two days was the way  bed

result). Promptness being one of our petty vices, we were of course the first
result   Promptness being one of our petty as     we were of course the first

at the rendezvous.   The Contessa and the rest of the picnic did not arrive
at the rendezvous  . The Contessa and the rest of the picnic did not arrive

till quarter of twelve.   But who would mind waiting indefinitely at Medinet
till quater  of twelve  . But who would mind waiting indatinicely at Medinat

Habu  on a glorious day?   The Contessa brought with her to entertain her
Habur on a Curious  day  ? The Contessa brought with her to entertain hur

guests the Snake Charmer of    Esneh, whom she had summoned down for the
guests the Snake Charmer Estet        whom she had summoned down for the

purpose.   We started out at once skirting the Coptic ruins which lie close to
purpose  . We started out at once starting the Coptic ruins which is  close to

the southwest walls of the temple. Walking with leisurely steps in advance of
the southwest walls of the temple  Walking with leisurely stops in advance of

us went the stately figure of the Arab in his black robe and white turban,
us went the stately figure of the Arab in his black robe and white turban 

with the ordinary long stick of the camel driver in his hand. Behind him
with the ordinary doug slick of the camel driver in his hand  Behind him

stalked the Contessa all in white from her snowy, floating veil to her
stalked the Contessa all in white from her shown  floating veil to her

spotless shoes (which       didn't stay spotless),   smoking one cigarette
spotless shoes (      which didn't stay spotless   ) smoking one cigarette

after another.   The rest of us, ten in number,   came on by twos and threes,
after another  . The rest of us  ton in number  , came on by hues and threes 

  looking perfectly commonplace in our ordinary donkey clothes. Over the
, looking perfectly commonplace in for ordinary donkey clothes. Over the

burning sands we went under the burning sun,   while the Arab in a loud clear
burning sands we went under the burning sun  , while the Arch in a loud clon 

voice recited a sort of incantation. And from the 24
                                                    

thorn bushes of the desert he drew the snakes and never once when he would
how   bushes of the desert he drew the snakes and never once when he would

pounce on a rock and turn it over did he fail to find a scorpion. And the
pounce on a rock and turn it over did he fail to find a scorpion  And the

scorpions stung him and the snakes bit him, and then he would drop them into a
scorpions stung him and the snakes bit him  and then he would drop them into a

strong basket with a weighted plug-like        stopper to it,   and a cord
strong basket with a weighted plug      - like stopper to it  , and a word

handle to carry it by.   We lunched in one of the side rooms of the temple and
bundle to carry it by  . We lunched in one of the side rooms of the temple and

when rested and comfortably full of bread and butter and sardines and pate de
when rested and comfortably full of bread and butter and sardines and pate do

foie gras and cake and ginger ale and Turkish coffee,   we rose up and
foie gras and cake and ginger bit and Turkish coffee  , we rose up and

demanded a cobra. It was against the rules to hunt for it in the temple,
demanded . cobra  It was against the rules to hunt for it    the temple 

Maspero having forbidden it,   but we did it.   Through one great court we
Mespero having forbidden it  , but we did it  . Through one great count we

followed the Arab and his incantation, then into another, and when he began
followed                                                           he began

pushing his sleeves up  to his shoulders we knew he smelled his quarry (that's
pushing his sleeves lip to his shoulders we knew he smelled his quarry (      

       what he does - he smells them).     He stepped from ruined wall to
that's what he does - he malls  them   ) . He stepped from not    wall to

ruined wall and suddenly bent forward with what sounded like a shout of
ruined wall and suddenly bent forward with what sounded like a shout of

command,   and out from a crack between two great blocks of stone slid the
command  , and out from a crack between two great blocks of stone slid the

wicked head of a cobra.   With a jerk of his stick the Arab brought the four
wicked head of a Gobra  . With a jock of has stick the Gras brought the four

feet of reptile out and it slipped and curved over the pavement,   then raised
feet of reptile out and it slipped and curved over the pavement  , then mised 

its head,   spread its hood and struck. It didn't hit anything but I heard its
its head  , spread its hood and stru    It didn't hit anything but I heard its

jaws come together.   Then the Arab picked it up and showed us its fangs and
jaws come together  . Then the Ardo picked it up and showed us its fangs and

it struck again, leaving drops of     poison on his sleeve. Then  the  
it What   awaits devil   has   fallen        on his where   there Comes

Contessa took it and holding it      tightly just back of the venomous head
looks            and loking  lightly         just back of the venomous head

she put it around her neck.   It was, to me, an absolutely revolting
she put it around her neck  . It was  to me  an absolutely revolting

spectacle. She and Mr. Tremaine both wear charms that the Arab has given them.
spectacle                                             the Arab has given them 

  I asked Mr.   Tremaine to tell me as man to man whether or not he believed
. I asked Me  . Tremaine                                     not he believed

in his charm.   To which he replied that this much  he       knew -     that
in his charm  . To which he replied that this hello theories of   which no  

not      for anything would the Arab let any of the rest of us,   who had no
politics              would the Arab let any of the rest of us  , who had no

charm, handle the snakes which he permitted him and the Contessa to take hold
charm                                       him and the Contessa to take hold

of freely.   His theory is that the charms  are saturated with some kind of
of freely  . His theory is Haul the chowwas are so        I                

essence of snake which the snakes smell and which renders the wearers more or
                                                  renders the wearers more of

less immune.   The show over we all ambled home in a rather spectacular train
less tune    . The show over we all ambled home in a rather spectacular train

in the lovely sunlight across the Memnonian plain.   And Cousin Theodore
in the lovely sunlight across the Momnonian plain  . And Cousin Theo    

didn't    believe a  word of it. Wednesday. January 22. This afternoon I
Wednesday January 22 .                                  This afternoon I

played in a tennis tournament at the Winter Palace - mixed doubles. My partner
played in a tennis tournament at the Winter Palace   mixed doubles  My partner

was a very nice Scotsman named MacNaughton,          and we defeated English
was a very nice Scotsman named Mac          Naughton and we defeated English

lords and German baronesses and commoners like ourselves, and won the first
words and German baroness   and commoners like ourselves  and won the first

prize. And not a Yale athlete of them all can boast a cup         like mine.
prize  At  not a Vale athlete of them all can boast a cup ) a cup like mine.

It pursued me in a boat from the Winter Palace,   for I had beaten a modest
It pursued me in a boat from the WV     Palace  , for I had beaten a modest

retreat,   not knowing that I had won anything. Friday. January 24.    
retreat  , not knowing that I had won anything  Friday  ,       June 24

Yesterday Doris and I had a lovely afternoon. Mrs.       Pier had invited us
Yesterday Doris and I had a lovely atemoon    .    Mrs . Pier had invited us

over to the Winter Palace for the Gym  Khana, and we sat and baked in the
over to the Winter Palace for the Gyan Khand  and we sit and baked in the

sunshine and were much amused watching the sports and the crowds of people.
sunshine and were much amused watching the sports and the crowds of people 

     Luxor seems  very full just now and there are two or three American
Luxe Luxor scents very full just now and these are two or three American

dahabyas tied up on that side, though I don't know who is on them. Today, in
dahabyas tied up on that side  though I don't know who is on thea  Today  in

the afternoon, Cousin T., Doris      and I rode over to our new diggings at
the afternoon  Cousin I   .     Dons and I rode over to our new diggings at

Medinet Habu. Harry began       there yesterday and says he is glad to be
Modine  Tabu  I     ary   begun there yesterday and says he is glad to be

working above ground.   The children who were carrying off the dirt were all
working above ground  . The child                      off the dirt were all

singing some sort of chant. "Have      they been singing like that all  day?"
singing some sort of chant  "     Have they been staging like the  Boss has  

I    asked. "Oh, no!" said  Harry, "they are    simply  singing 'The    Boss
come the    Boss ha   where there  has   proved solomon jones   fucking care

has come, the Boss has come." The light was perfectly exquisite as it fell on
of  come  "                   The light was perfectly exquisite as it fell on

Libyan Cliffs, on stately temple walls, on heaps of rubbish,   on spots of
Lyblan                                     heaps of rubbish  , on spots of

truly emerald verdure, on  a lonely Coptic Monastery far off in the desert,
truly emerald venture  out a lonely Coptic Monastery far off in the desert 

and on one splendid Beduin swinging on his camel over the sands toward the
and on one splendid Beduin swinging on his camel over                     

western sun, twirling his camel  stick in the air. Good-bye,     dears all,
             twirling his canter stick in the all  Grand-    bye dears all 

till another week. Your devoted Mary 25
till another week  our  devoted Mary   

Sunday. January 26. West Bank at Luxor Dearest Adeline:- How does that Watts
Dearest Adeline :                                        How does that Wails

hymn go? "Oh      day so calm,   so still, so bright" - I don't believe I've
lynn go  ?   " Oh day so calm  , so still  so bright  - I don   believe I've

got it right and very likely it wasn't Watts who perpetrated it,   but anyway
got it right and very likely it wasn't Watts who perpetrated it  , but anyway

"so calm,   so still,   so bright" describes all our Sundays here (and     all
so  calm  , so will   , so bright  describes all our Sundays here (    and all

other days except when the wind blows). "So still"       did not exactly
other days except when the wind blows   )   So     still did not exactly

depict the part of the morning when Mr. Whymper         was breakfasting with
depict the part of the morning when Mir .       Whimper was breakfasting with

us.   He is awfully nice and very amusing - but Dio Mio! what      a voice!  
49  . He is awfully nice and very amusing - but Dio Mio  !    What a voice  !

The whole boat was filled with the sound thereof    and I could see Cousin
The whole boat was filled win  the home  where   or and   could not cough 

Theodore wilt beneath it. Rarely  have I    met anyone who dislikes as much as
theodore wil  bepaid  in  Hearing hold back     anyone who dislikes as much as

does Charles W. to have anyone else talk, so when he is present there is
does Cuties  WV to have anyone case talk  so when he is presen  there is

little respite from that battering sound.   I'm beginning to understand why
little respite from that ballering sound  . I'm beginning to understand why

his lawful and wedded doesn't live with him, but resides somewhere in the
his lasfil and edged  doesn't live with him  but resides somewhere in the

country in England with the daughter, and occasionally  allows Charles to pay
country in England with the daughter  and niccasionally allows Charles to pay

them a visit.   He and Doris and I rowed over to church together.   Our
them a visit  , He and Dur's and I rowed over to chure  together  . Our

regular incumbent was absent,   preaching in the Cathedral at Khartoum, and we
regular incumbent was absent  , preaching in the Cathedral at Khartoum  and we

had two  clerical birds of passage in his place.   The sermon,   an excellent
had turn clerical birds of passage in his place  . The section , an excellent

one, was preached by the Rev. Urquhart Bing Urquhart (isn't       that a
one  was preached by the Key  Urquhart Bing Urquhart (      isn't that a

delicious name?) And       the service was read by a little man who looked
delicious name   ?   ) and the service was road by a little man Who looked

like an owl  but who had a charming voice and read beautifully.   In
like an todd but who had a charming voice and read beautifully  . In

connection with him Mr. Whymper told us such a nice  little tale. He - the
connection with im  Mer Whisper told us such a juice belle  tale  He . the

Rev. Owl (I   forget his name)   is rector in a little town in England called
Rev  Out (  I forget his name  ) is rector in a little town in Finland called

Dunmow  (where       General Bing, now      commanding all the forces in
Dunmore (      Where General Bing  ,   n ow commanding all the forces in

Egypt, lives when he's at home).     And there it has been a custom from time
Egypt  liven when he's at home   ) . And there it has been a custom from time

immemorial, to give once a year a whole flitch of bacon to      the married
immemorial  to give once a year a whole thich  of bacon toll To the married

couple who on that day can, with their hands upon the altar, swear solemnly
couple who on that day can  with their hands upon the allan  sweat solemnly

that for the preceding year not a single cross word has passed between them!
that for the preceding year not a single cross word has passed Between their

If more than one couple present themselves and take this solemn  oath,
If more than one couple present themselves and take this solecan call 

whichever one can best substantiate the assertion receives the flitch of
whichever one can best substantiate the assertion receives the fitch  of

bacon. Mr.   Tremaine came home to luncheon with us and I'm sure had a very
bacon  Mr  . Tremaine came home to luncheon with us and I'm sure had a very

dull time. No - he didn't come with us,   he followed later,   and the
                          come with us  , he followed later  , and the

Contessa was to have come with him but had a bad headache and couldn't, and he
Contests was to have come with him but had a bad Curious                      

looked almost dismembered without her. Doris rode over to the diggings at
                                                                       at

Medinet Habu this afternoon with her donkey boy and a sailor.   She and I had
Modinet Habu this afternoon with her donkey buy and a sailor  . She and I had

a lovely ride yesterday afternoon around by the Ramesseum   and home by the
a lovely ride yesterday afternoon around by the Ramessellin and home by the

Colossi, where we paused and got off to examine the creatures,   which we have
Colossi  where we paused and got off to examine the creatures  , which we have

not done before. When we reached the Beduin we found Mrs. Pier and her two
not done before  .    W  found   Mrs .                    Pier and her two

little girls.   Those little girls are the very sweetest things I've seen in
little girls  . Those little girls are the      sweetest Things I've seen in

ages.   They were having a heavenly time in our poultry yard as we rode up.
ages  . They were having a heavenly time in our poultry yard as we rode up 

Monday. January 27. I foresee that this letter is going to be dull for anyone
Monday  January 27  I foresee that this letter is going to be dull for anyone

to read,         for I don't seem to be doing anything off the boat just now
to he    to read for I don't scam to be doing anything off the boat just bow

except society things. (I'm     lunching out tomorrow and the next day).     I
except society things  .    I'm lunching out tomorrow and the next day   ) . I

literally did not step off the boat till late this afternoon when Cousin
literally did not step of  the boat till late this afternoon      Cousin

Theodore and I went on the sands for a walk which he thought long and I
Theodore and I went on the sands for a walk which he thought long and I

thought short. We were all to have gone over to the diggings this afternoon,  
thought shore  We were all to have gone over to the diggings this afternoon  ,

Cousin Emma in her donkey chair and we on our mounts,   but just as we were
Cousin Emma in her donkey chair and we on our mounts  , but just as we were

all ready to start Cousin T. said he had a headache and wouldn't go, so I
all ready to start Cousin I  said he had a headache and wouldn't go  so I

stayed at home with him,   and the others went.   At teatime they returned in
stayed at home with him  , and the offers west  . At tealine they returned in

a sort of whirlwind of donkeys and people,   having picked up the Contessa and
a sort of whirlwind of donkeys and people  , having picked up the Contessa and

Mr. Tremaine and their outrunners. And  at the same time a boat drew up on
My  Tremaine and their he          came                                 on

the     other   side of the Beduin and deposited a      very charming
someone periods      of the Bodies and or        portal very clothing

Englishwoman - a   Mrs.   Graham, whose husband belongs to the Civil Service
englishwoman . Mis stated         whose husband belong  to the civil service

in Egypt,                         and who is an old acquaintance of the
in very   charming kingli Egypt , and who is an old acquaintance of the

cousins.   Poor Cousin Theodore was reduced almost to a panic, as he always is
cousins  . Poor Cousin Theodore was reduced        to a panic  as he always is

nowadays by the arrival of people. I admired Mrs. Graham  vastly, in spite of
nowadays by the arrival of people  I admired Mrs  Cicwham vasily  in spite of

an absolutely expressionless way of speaking which I generally find irritating
an absolutely expressionless way of          which I generally find irritating

when I    meet it.       Something quite   thrilling was told her by Mr.
from hell on   something able      pulling tens      of       her do who

Tremaine, and she       murmured  in a perfectly colorless voice "How    
planesare the marketing seriously                colorless voice (rolling

exciting" as she buried her nose in her teacup. 26
"         as she buried her nose in her teacup    

Tuesday. January 28. Harry came over early this morning (have I said that     
Tuesday  January 28  Harry came over early this morning (have I said that That

Tuesday is the weekly holiday here?)   and took Doris on an expedition to
Tuesday is the week   holiday here!  ) and took Doris on an expedition to

Karnak. Mr.      Howard Carter came from his diggings about eleven and stayed,
Kamak   .   Mr . Howard Carter came from his diggings about eleven and stayed 

  politely quarreling with all of us,   until time to escort Cousin Emma and
, politely quarreling with all of us  , until time to escort Cousin Emma and

me to the Dahabya Cheops,   just below us, where he and we were lunching with
me to the Databya Cheops  , just below us  where he and we were lunching with

the Fahnstocks. Mr. Howard Carter merits a paragraph to himself. He is a young
the My          .   Howard Carter merits a paragraph to himself  He is a young

Englishman and one of the very best diggers in Egypt.   He used to dig for
Englishman and one of the very best dingers in Egypt  . He used to dig for

Cousin Theodore until they quarreled (not politely, I        fear).     Now he
Cousin Theodore until they quarreled (    not       politely lead   ) . Now he

digs for Lord Carnarvon. He can be perfectly charming, I'm told. This morning
digs for lord Camaron    Ie can be perfectly chaining  I'm told              

he was probably liverish for he disagreed with everything that was said. Fleas
   was probably british  for be disagreed with everything that was ed    fleas

were mentioned. He  said there were no fleas in this part of Egypt! Cousin
were mentioned  the said there were no less  in this part of Egypt  Cousin

Emma then asserted that there were even worse things than fleas in this part
Emma                                    worse things than Deas  in this part

of Egypt. He  insisted on knowing what she meant.   Goaded to desperation she
of LEUP   Ile insisted on knowing what she meant  . Goaded to expiration  she

finally replied succinctly "Flesh-lice". "You     can't acquire those",   said
finally replied succinctly Flesh-lice    "    You can't acquire these   " said

he, "they      are parasites. They     develop on the bodies of the persons
he  "     they are parasites  .    The develop on the bodies of the persons

who have them." "I've        had them!"   said the dainty little lady. "You  
who have them   .     " I've had them   " said the daily  little Indy  .    "

    can't have had them", asserted Mr. Carter. "Play that piece!"   he said,  
You can't have had them   asserted My  Cule    Play  tout piece   ! he said  ,

pouncing on me as I was playing dominoes with Cousin T; it annoys me
pouncing on me as I was playing dominoes with Cousin I  it annoys me

excessively to be watched when I'm playing dominoes,   and more so to be
excessively to be watched When I'm playing dominoes  , and move so to be

ordered about during the process.   So I played another piece and lost the
ordered about during the process  . So I played another piece and lost the

game. "Why       didn't you play the piece I told you to?"   he demanded. (It
game  .    " Why didn't you play the piece I told you to   " he dome         

was the first time I   had ever talked to the man in my  life.) "Because
was the list  wine and     ever talked to the man in roy life   ,       

        you told me to", I replied. Whereupon                 he laughed and
Because you told me to   I replied  dod       . ( 1 Thereupon he laughed and

began to be pleasant.   The luncheon with the Fahnstocks was very agreeable,  
began to he pleasant  . The luncheon with the Fairstocks was ve   agreeable  ,

but with oceans too much to eat.   I sat between an Italian Count who is here
but with oceans too much to eat  . I sat between an Italian Count who is here

buying up lands to start a Franciscan or Dominican (I   don't know which)
buying up lands to start a franciscan or Dominican (  I don't know which 

monastery,   and Mr. Tremaine (the     Contessa was at the other end of the
monastery  , and Mir Tremaine (    the Contessa was at the other and of the

table.) Mr.      Tremaine is beginning to assume godlike proportions in my
table   )   Mr . Tremaine is beginning to assume godlike proportions in my

mind since he told me that "one     of his homes"   is in Cornwall and that he
mind since he told me that "    one of his homes  " is in Cornwall and that he

owns a magnificent cliff near Tintagel. Think of owning a piece of that
owns a magnificent cliff near Tintaged  Think of owning a piece of that

rapturous coast! This evening Doris has,   I'm happy to say, gone to dine with
rapturous coast  This Evening Doris bus  . I'm happy to say  gone to dine with

those lovely Piers at the Winter Palace and to stay for the dance afterwards.
those lovely Piers at the Winter Palace and to stay for the dance afterwards 

Wednesday. January 29.        Doris and Cousin Theodore rode over to the
Wednesday  ,       Youen - 20 Doris and Cousin Theodore rode over to the

diggings this morning and I mended frantically until time to put on my very
diggings this               mended basicaly    unit  line to put on my very

swagger  serge (made by Hamilton & Co.  of Chapel St.,   and a credit to them)
strasser serge made  by hamilton a coat    Chapel Sit  , and a credit to them 

  and     go over to the Winter Palace to lunch with the Piers. The little
) and and go over to the Winter Palace to lunch with the Piers  The little

girls lunched with us - as I hoped they would - and each one of them gave me 
girls lunched with us - as I hoped they would - and each one of them gave the

a lovely pink rose.   They looked like lovely pink roses themselves.   Nothing
a lovely pink use   . They looked like lovely pink roses themselves  . Nothing

on earth could be sweeter than they are.   We had a charming time,   and then
on earth could be sweeter than they are  . We had a charming time  , and then

I got a carriage and drove Mrs. Pier out to   the American Mission School in
I got a carriage and drove Mrs  .    for butt              Mission School in

which the Cousins have been so interested for years.   Cousin T. always keeps
which the Cousins have been so interested for years  . Cousin I  always keeps

seven orphan girls there.   As soon as any are graduated others take their
seven orphan girls there  . As soon as any are graduated other  take their

place.   There are three American women teachers,   a Scotch housekeeper and a
place  . There are three American women teachers  , a Scotch housekeeper and a

number of native women teachers.   The chief difficulty in the mechanism of
number of native women teachers  . The chief difficulty in the mechanism of

the school is the feeding of the pupils -    each meal has to be served in
the school is the feeling of the busis  such                     served in

three sections, according to caste, and with different food for each caste.
Have  sex       things    to waste  and will differe                       

It's a fine new building extending around a square court, and most of the
                building extending around a square count  and most of the

rooms are light and airy. They, the      teachers, insisted upon our having
rooms are light and airy  They  leathers ,         insisted upon our having

tea with them and gave us some delicious Scotch shortcake and another kind of
tea with them and gave us some delicious Scotch shortcake and another kind of

cake - quite the best I've had in Egypt. Then I came home and had another tea,
cake - quite the best I've had in Egypt  Then I came home and bud another !   

Sir Gaston and Lady Maspero being here for that function.   He is surely one
Sir Gaston and Lady Maspera being have for that function  . He is surely one

of the most delightful men in all the wide world. I fancy Lady M. is very
of the most delightful men in all the wide world  I fancy Lady M  is very

agreeable when with people who can jabber French but she will not exert
agreeable when with people who can jabber French but she will not exert

herself in the least for those who move haltingly through the mazes of the
herself in the least for those who move hatingly  through the mazes of the

Gallic tongue.   She allowed herself a moment of enthusiasm when we were
Gallic tongue  . She allowed herself a moment of enthusiasm when we were

hanging over the rail watching the ducks,   who know as well as anyone when
hanging over he  rail watching the ducks  , who know as well as anyone when

it's teatime. "Comme it est enorme,   le gros!"     was almost the only
it's teatime  Comme  it est enorte  , le gros   ! " was ablast the only

spontaneous remark I heard her make.   In the middle of the Masperos' visit a
spontaneous remark I heard her make  . In the middle of the Maspaces  visit a

steam launch came puffing and clattering up and a beautiful woman and her 27
steam launch came puffing and clattering up and a beautiful woman and her   

good-looking           husband asked for me.   They were Mr.   and Mrs.  
good         - looking husband asked for me  . They were Me  . and Mrs  .

Packard - she a niece of Mrs. William Farnam, and very      like her. They
Packard - she a nieve of Mrs  walbar  Barcom  and very very like her  They

were very rushed, being in Luxor for a few hours only, and I was so sorry not
were very rushed  being in Luxor for a few hours only  and I was so sorry not

to see more of them.    Thursday. January 30. Doris and I had a lovely ride
to see more of Thursday           January 30  Doris and I had a lovely ride

this afternoon.   We went first over to the diggings to cheer Harry up a bit.
this afternoon  . We want just  over to the diggings to cheer Harry up a bil 

  He gets low in his mind if he doesn't see a white person to speak to
. He gets low in his mind if he doesn't see a white person to speak to

occasionally. We  went by a short cut which Doris loves and I      hate
occasionally  the work by a shout out which Davis love  and that's     

because there's a fearsome plunge into a gully which I always descend
because there's a become   linge  into a gully which I always descend

shrieking "I want to get off - I      want to    get off! 0 how I loathe this
sticking  I  want to get off ( loathe this place !   "                       

place!" While a sailor holds me on and Malimond says in that heavenly voice of
        While a sailor holds me on and Malimond says in that heavenly voice of

his "Don' be 'fraid Madame!"   Yesterday the sailor and I took the plunge in a
his Don'  be Braid  Madame   . Yesterday the sailor and I look the plunge in a

most lover-like manner,            for I was clutching him around the neck and
most lover      -       like mamme for I was clutching him around the neck and

he had his arm around my waist. Harry clamored for us to stay, but we had a
he had his arm around my waist  Harry clamored for us to stay  but we had a

hankering to go somewhere we had not been before,   so after a very big visit
hankering to go somewhere we had not been before  , so after a very his visit

we continued on our way and finally - or should I say shortly - reached the
we continued on our way and fulally . or should I say shortly - reached the

hollow in the hills where nestles that gem of a temple (small       enough for
hollow in the hills where nestles that gem of   temple (      small enough for

my limited comprehension) Der-el-Medineh. Such             lovely carving,
my limited comprehension  Dor             -    Madinah uck lovely carving 

such delicious color left in scraps and patches, and peace and remoteness that
such delicious cole  left in swaps  and patches  and peace and remoteme   he  

I said "I would have liked to come here to church". And through a broad
                                   here to church"  And through a broad

opening in the rocks a wide and beautiful view down to the distant Nile,  
opening in the rocks   wide and beautiful view down to the distant Mile  ,

with the stately ruin of the Ramesseum   in the foreground.   We had only
with the stately ruin of the Ramnesseuro in the foreground  . We had only

fifteen minutes to spend there,   but acquired that haunting desire to   
fifteen minutes to spend there  , but acquired that haunting desire sturn

return there which is, for me, an Egyptian fever.   The splendid   looking
       there which is  for me  an Egyptian fever  . The splend   I looking

Arab, guardian of the place,   was so  overcome by my largesse of         
Arab  guardian of the place  , was soo vercome  by my largesse of sex . of

seven and a half cents that he knocked Malimond out of the way in order to
seven and a half cence that he knocked Matimand our of the way in order to

hold my donkey himself when I mounted.   We rode home by our dear Colossi and
hold my donkey himself when I mounted  . We rude home by our des  Colossi and

Doris suddenly left me on a mad gallop to overtake a baby camel she saw in the
Doris suddenly left me on a mad gallop so overtake a baby camel she saw in the

distance.   I finally caught it up without any undue exertion. I don't believe
distance  . I finally caught it up without any undue exer                     

it could have been more than a month old. The maternal camel was not in the
                   more than a month old  The maternal camel was not in the

least gratified by our attentions and tried to take a bite out of Doris.
least gratified by our attentions and wind  to take a bite out of Paris 

Friday, January 31. The only thing worthy of record today was tea, by
Worthy                                    of record today was tea  by

invitation,   with the Masperos on  their Dahabya Miriam. It's   a government
invitation  , with the search   for the   Most    of      people             

boat and so ugly that I   should think it would afflict them desperately to
     and o  o    ooo  ooo much   is       would afflict them desperately to

have to live on  it. However,           I come back from every other boat I
have to live but it  .        However , I come      from every other boat I

see freshly impressed with the beauty and perfect order of this one.   Sir
see freshly impressed with the beauty and perfect order of this one  . Sir

Gaston was very twinkley this afternoon but did not have the opportunity to
Gaston was very twinkly  this afternoon but did not have the opportunity to

    launch forth upon one of his marvellous monologues.   We rowed home
lay launch forth upon one of his munitious  monologues  , We rowed fone

beneath a flight of crimson clouds with the upper reaches of the river rose
beneath a light  of crimson clouds with the upper reaches of the river rose

and violet and the nearer  ones fire opal. Good-bye till     another week and
and violet and the greater ones fire ona   Good     bye  fil another week and

so much love to all, whether in Edwards Street, on the dear hilltop, or in
so much love to all  whether in Edwards Street  on the dear hilltop  or in

Summerville. Your devoted Mary Sunday, February 2. West Bank at Luxor Dear
Summerville  Your devoted Mary                                            

Adeline: - There is such a wild wind from the desert tonight that the Beduin
                                          the desert tonight that the Baduin

is rocking as she never did during the entire voyage up from Cairo. Always
is rocking as she never did during the entire Up        from Cairn  Always

immediately after dinner I come into my room and hang out of my window       
immediately after dinner I come inbe my tham and hang nat of my last   off my

         for a    few     minutes to look at the stars and the lights of
with bal for Felt mindles         to LOOK at the sees  and The bears  of

Luxor. Tonight they are veiled in sand. The wind rose in the afternoon.   It
Luxor  Tonight they are veiled in sand  The wind rose in the afternoon  . It

was calm enough when Doris and I went to church this morning. Upon emerging
was calm enough                                               Upon emerging

from the sanctuary I had a little talk with Mr. and Mrs. Waldo Hutchins, Delia
from the sanctuary I had a till   when one      and No   wall  chilean   pre  

Porter’s relatives who are birds of passage through 28                        
ponder   replies   to  a   and   of pases   through talk with ME and Mis Waldo

          
Hutchins ,

Luxor.   We brought Miss Buchanan home to luncheon.   She it is who built up
Luxor  . We brought Miss Buchanan home to luncheon  . She it is who built up

the Mission School (the     American Mission)   at Luxor, and who is head now
the Mission School (    the American Mission  ) at Lever  and who is head now

of the larger one in Cairo,   and whom Cousin Theodore admires so profoundly.
of the larger one in Cairo  , and whom Cousin Theodore admires so profoundly 

Everyone does,   I think. A little,   very plain little woman,  whose "outward
Everyone does  , I think  A little  , very plain little outward               

semblance doth belie her soul's immensity". The beauty of that soul makes
semblance both belie her souls  intensity   The beauty of the  soul makes

itself apparent to all kinds of people.   A Sheik from the desert who came to
itself appareil to all kinds of people  . A Sheik from the desert who came to

one of the Commencements at the Mission School here said to one of the
one of the Commencements at the Mission School here said to one of the

teachers, in speaking of Miss Buchanan, "Today for the first time in my life
teachers  in speaking of Miss Buchanan  Today  for the best  time in my life

have I seen a Woman! How can I go back to those three - my wives!" This
have I seen a Woman  How can I go back to those Three - my wives   This

afternoon the Fahnestocks came to tea and some English people named Rae puffed
afternoon the Fahnestocks came to ten and some English people named Res puffed

over   in a steam Launch from Luxor, bringing Mohammed Mohassib.   The old man
steato            Launch from Luxor  bringing Mohammed Mchassis  . The old man

enjoyed himself enormously, sat in various chairs, chuckling at everything,
enjoyed himself enormously  Sat in various chairs  chuckling at eventing   

insisted on drinking tea,   because it was the custom at this hour on this
insisted on drinking ten  , because it wa  the custom at this hour on this

boat,   though he disliked it greatly, and we were all telling him to wait 
boat  , though he disliked it          and we were all telling him to Where

a         few minutes and he should have some  coffee. We were    
thousands of                 should i    phone solicit ed colorado

disappointed because he wasn't clad in rich raiment - he being a millionaire -
             because I  phone  led  in rich raiment - he being a millionaire -

but he was bundled up in a brown and white checked shawl around his neck and
but he was bundled up in a brown and white chocked about around his neck and

an old brown overcoat with a hood to   it, such   as our sailors wear at    
in old brown overcoal with a hood toit .   suchas    our sailor  wes  Monday

night. Monday. February 3. A heavenly day - like all the others that have gone
               February 3. A heavenly day - like all the others that have gone

before it. The wind ceased suddenly last night before it had torn us from our
before it  The wind ceased suddenly last night before it had for  us from our

moorings,   and this morning dawned as quietly as possible. Doris went over to
moorings  , and this morning dawned as quietly as possible  Doris went over to

Karnak for the forenoon with Margaret Fahnestock,   and in the afternoon she
Kamak  for the forenoon with Margaret Fanniestock , and    the afternoon ste

rode out to the diggings with Cousin Theodore, while I spent the afternoon in
rode out to the diggings with Cousin Theodore  while I spent the afternoon in

the novel and thrilling occupation of falling in love with a Russian Princess.
the novel and thriling  acoups     of filling in love with a Russian Princess 

  The Contessa had invited me to go to Karnak in a small party of which the
. The Contessa bad invited me to go to Kamak  in a small party of which the

Princess was one.   We were to be shown about by M. Legrain himself (he has
Princess was one  . We were to be shown about by MY Legrein himself the has

for years been conducting the excavations at Karnak). But that part fell
for years been conducting                                 that part fell

through and it was Mme. Legrain who took us about, Legrain himself being
through and it was Mime Legrain who took us about  Legrain himself being

absorbed with a dissipated looking Prince de Croix. But little I cared as long
absorbed with a dissipated Looking Prince de Croix  But little I cared as long

as I could gaze upon my Princess. Besides,           I think we saw pretty
as I could gaze upon my Princess  .        Besides , I think we say pretty

much what we would have seen under Legrain's guidance. We watched the workmen
mud  what we would have seen under Legzain's guidance  We watched the workmen

carefully unearthing a large and beautiful jar from a ruined and crumbling
carefully unearthing a large and beautiful jar from a ruined and as       

wall beyond the sacred lake. We held our breaths while it was being emptied,  
wel  beyond the sacred lake  we had  our breaths made  it was being emptied  ,

and let them out again when nothing but a brick was found inside.   We went to
and let them out again when nothing but a brick was found inside  . We went to

the little temple of Ptah in one dusky room of which stands the uncanny black
the little sample of Blah    one dusk  room of which stands the uncanny black

granite statue of Sekmet,   the goddess with the lion's head.   When you have
granite statue of Sekmet  , the goddess with the lion's head  . When you have

looked at her for five minutes she becomes so vibrant with life that it is
looked at her for five minutes the becomes so vibrant with life that it is

easy to understand why the Arabs believe that she sometimes prowls forth
easy to understand why the Arabs believe that she sometimes prowls forth

seeking whom she may devour.   My chief pleasure this afternoon was watching
seeking whom she may devour  . My chief pleasure this afternoon was watching

the Princess - a fairy Princess, young, little, beautiful, quiet,           
the Princess - a fairy Princess  ,      young   Little     beautiful quiet .

with a delightful laugh and a perfect simplicity of manner.   She looks like a
with a delightful laugh and a perfect simplicity of manner  . She looks like a

high bred Englishwoman except that her eyes are somehow different.   Her skin
high bred Englishwoman except that her eyes are somehow different  . Her skin

is healthily tanned with a lively color in it.   She wore a most perfect
is healthily tanned with a lively cular in it  . She wore a most perfect

pongee skirt,   just off the white in tone,   shoes to  match, a short silk
panget skirt  , just off the white in tone  , shoes for watch  a shell silk

sweater coat of tawny orange,   a hat like all our hats (bought in Cairo for
sweater coal of tawny orange  , a hat like all ou  hats bought  in Cairo for

$1.00)   with a long veil, like all our veils only of a lighter shade than her
$1.09  ) with a long vel   like all our veils only of a lighter shade than her

sweater,   a cane with a bloodstone sunk in the top of the handle, and a
sweater  , a cane with a bloodstone sunk in the top of the handle  and a

monocle on a black ribbon.   She walked so well on her little feet and when
monois  on a black nibton  . She walked so well on her little feet and when

she took off her gloves later at tea in the garden of the Luxor Hotel,   her
she took of  her gloves later at the in the garden of the Luxor Hotel  , her

hands were  covered with superb sapphires. Doris had seen her on the street in
hands ivers covered with superb sapphires  Doris had seen her on the street in

the morning, was      instantly antagonized by the monocle,   and came home
the morning  insantly           antagonized by the monocle  , and came home

saying she was "a sight"       and that her donkey had shied at her. So much
saying she was "  a      sight and that he  donkey had shied at her  So much

for the intolerance of youth. She is the Princess Gortschokoff and she has me
for the intolerance of youth  She is the fri                   and she has me

bound to her chariot wheels. 29
bound to her chariot wheels  . 

Tuesday. February 4. Doris and I have had a perfect day. Harry elected to
Tuesday  February 4  Doris and I have had a perfect day  Harry elected to

spend the holiday in the valley and invited Doris and me to come out to see
spend the holiday in the valley and invited Doris and me in come out to see

the tomb of Horemheb,    which neither of us  had entered, and also that I
the tomb of Horenthiel , which neither of its had entered  and also that I

might see the Siphtah  sarcophagus, and then to lunch with him at the House.  
might see the Siptulan sarcophagus  and then to lunch with him at the House  .

We got up early and had breakfast at eight (nine is the usual hour)   and were
We got up early and had breakfast at eight nine  is the usual hour  ) and were

off on our donkeys before the Cousins appeared.   We rode via the landing
off on on  donkeys before the Cousins appeared  . We rode via the landing

place opposite Luxor and it was   a      sight worth seeing.          Two
place opposite Luxor and it wants signit       worth seal    sooing . Two

steamers had come in last night and scores upon scores of people were bound
steamers had come in Just niet  and scores upon scores of people we   bound

for the valley and the hubbub and the color and the excitement! Scores and
for the valley and the hubbub and the color and the excitement  Scares and

scores of donkeys with their gay trappings, scores and scores of donkey boys
scores of donkeys with their gay trappings  scores and scores of donkey boys

in blue and white and a dash of red on their chests, native policemen in khaki
in blue and white and a dash of red on their chests  native policemen in that 

trying to keep order while their splendid camels lay waiting for them in the
trying to keep order while their splendid came   lay waiting for them in the

background - carriages, sand carts - and everybody shouting and talking at
background . carriages  sand carls - and everybody shouting and talking at

once. It was immensely  amusing. I did enjoy my ride, and the light and the
once  It was inoneneely amusing  I did major me ride  and the light and the

color on the Libyan Range were of surpassing beauty,   but so blinding that we
color on     Libyan Range were of surpassing beauty  , but so blinding that we

had to lower our chiffon veils. We rode first to the House, to drop our
had to                          We rode first to the House  to drop our

donkeys and pick up Harry,   and then we walked around to the Valley of the
donkeys and pick up Larry  , and then we walked around "  the Valley of the

Tombs. We went first into Horemheb which is not a very easy tomb to enter, as
Tombs  We went first into Horemuch which is not a very easy tomb to enter  as

the once kingly flights of steps leading down into it are not but crumbling
the once kindly Ditches of steps leading down into it are not but crumbling

masonry.   But what beauty of painted walls when once you have made the
masonry  . But what beauty of painted walls when once you have made the

descent,   and what a superb sarcophagus! More interesting to me than the
descent  , and what a superb sarcophagus  !    he          to me than the

completed work were the walls where the designs were sketched in  merely,
completed work were the walls Where the designs were sketches bly        

looking as though the artist had just laid down his crayon and his brushes and
looking as though the artist had just laid down his wayon  and his brushes and

gone home to luncheon. Horemheb            is lighted by electricity -but
gone home to luncheon  .        [ forembed is lighted by electricity .   

Siphtah         more appropriately by reflected sunlight from a large mirror
but     Sightah more appropriately by reflected sunlight from a large mirror

at the mouth. The chief interest in Siphtah is the sarcophagus. They've not 
at the mouth  The chief interest in Sipheat is are phagus       wiley   veno

got the lid turned over yet, but the      thing is very impressive from its
got the is  turned over her  but thething       is very Impresive  from its

size.   The inscriptions on it seemed to me to be done in rather an archaic
size  . The inscriptions on it seemed to me to be done in rather an archaic

manner,   but Harry is of the opinion that that is because red granite is such
manner  , but Harry is of he  opinion that that is because red granite is such

a difficult medium. It was horribly hot walking back to the House in the
a difficult usedfun    was horribly lot walking back to the House in the

fierce light of noon,   but it's the sort of heat one can stand if one's head
fierce light of noon  , but it's the sort of h    one can stand if one's head

and the back of one's neck are covered. We had a very gay luncheon with Harry
and the back of one's neck are onvered  We had a very gay luncheon with Harry

and Mr. Lancelot Crane,                  and a lovely ride home. As we passed
and Mr  .        [      Buncelot Crane , and a lovely ride home  As we passed

Howard Carter's diggings we were surprised to see that he was working his full
toward Carter's diggings we were surprised to 300 that he was working his full

force of 300 in spite of its being the holiday.   He was probably doing it
force of 360 in spite of its being the holiday  . He was probably doing it

under orders from Lord Carnarvon.   That rather damaged nobleman was standing
under orders from Lard Camarmor   . That rather damaged nobleman was standing

under an awning arrangement, leaning on his cane, surveying the proceedings.  
under an auming arrangement  caning  on his want  surveying the proceedings  .

When we reached the Beduin the Contessa was here and eight other people came
When we reached the Beduin the Contessa was here and eight other people came

soon after. Two of them were the Masperos to say good-bye,     as they start
soon after  Two of them were the Masperas to say good      bye as they start

down the river in the morning.   Sir Gaston tells me that my Princess is the
down the river in the morning  . Sir Gaston tells me that my Princess is the

granddaughter of the old and famous Prince Gortschokoff; that she is married
granddaughter of the old and famous Prince Gorechokoff   that she is married

to a commoner by whose name she is never called!   My mind is absorbed tonight
to a commoner by whose name she is never called  ! My mind is in       the    

                               between my  passion for my Princess and my
strange habits also had switch between toy pasion  for me prince   and my

interest in the strange habits of camels. I passed one on  the road this
increase in the song    babies of amels.  I passed one out the road this

afternoon,   which hated me instantly, and in order apparently to express its
afternoon  , which                                             to express its

utter loathing it threw up one of its stomachs and swallowed it again with the
utter loathing it threw up the of its stomachs and swallowed it again with the

most perfectly horrid noise I ever heard. Wednesday, February 5. and Ash
most perfectly hamid  noise I ever hour   Wednesday  February s  and Ash

Wednesday too.   I didn't go to church,   but it was a self-denial        not
Wednesday too  . I didn't go to church  , but it was a self        denial not

to, so I hope it's all right. The only exciting thing that has happened today
to  So I Hope it's all right  The an   exciting think that has happened today

was when a sailboat drew up at the side of the Beduin and deposited Mr. Dodge
was that            drew up at the side of the Redbin and deposited Mr  Dodge

and Janet, friends of Doris's and mine, whom we had supposed were at         
and Janet  friends of Doris's and mine  whom we has supposed were at and were

   home in Cleveland, Ohio.   I followed them back in my boat to call on Mrs. 
at home in Cleveland  Ohio  . I followed them back in my boat to call on Miles

Dodge. They are on their way up the River on one of Cook's steamers. Thursday.
Dodge  They are on their way up the River on one of Cook's steamers  thursday 

  February 8. and an entirely heavenly day as usual. Doris and Cousin Theodore
, February &  and an entire   heavenly day as usual  Doris and Cousin Theodore

rode out to the diggings, and Cousin Emma  and I donned our war paint, crossed
todo out to the diggings  and Cousin Fries and I danset our war paint  crossed

over to Luxor and took a carriage.   We had some difficult in getting a nice
over to luxor and took a carriage  . We had some difficult in getting a nice

looking one,   because Mr.  J. P. Morgan   has arrived in his dahabya and he
looking one  , because Most J  .  P      M has arrived in his dahabyz and he

keeps six carriages and six donkeys waiting all day long on each 30
keeps six carriages and six donkeys wailing all day long on each   

side of the river in case he may want them.   We drove out to Karnak to call
side of the river in case he may want them  . We drove out to Kamal  to call

on Mme. Legrain, who says her husband is nearly dead showing princes and
on Mine Legal    Who says her husband is nearly dead showing princes and

potentates about the ruins. We also called on Mrs. Edgar        but didn't see
potentales about the mins   We also Called on Mrs  .     Hidgar but didn't see

her.   When we got back to Luxor Cousin Emma came straight home and I paused
her  . When we got back to Luxor cousin Emma came straight he   and I paused

to refresh myself with tea and Mrs. Pier      and to see the throngs at the
to refresh myself with tea and Mrs  .    fier and to see the throngs at the

Winter Palace.   Our haughty seclusion on the west bank is well enough in the
Winter Palace  . Our haughty seclusion on the west hank is well enough in the

long run,   but I do like once in a while to be in the thick of things.
long run  , but I do like once in a while to be in the chick of things 

Friday.          February 7. and an almost disagreeable day because of the
.       Friday , February 7  and an almost disagreeable day because of the

wind. We meant to ride out to the diggings, but the air was so thick with sand
wind  We meant to ride out to I                 the air was so thick with sand

that Doris and I decided to keep to the waterway - so we sailed up the Nile in
that Doris and I decided to keep to the waterway                up the Nile in

the little felucca with four of the crew and enjoyed it immensely. Farewell,
the like   falucas with four of the crow and enjoyed it immensely  Farewell 

dears all. With love and devotion Mary     February 15.   West    Bank, Luxor
dears all  With love and devotion Beforeit was      Dares Adeline            

Dearest Adeline:- This letter ought really to be skipped and all of you may
                  This letter such  really to be shipped and all of you may

skip it without hurting my feelings in the very least. Since my last,   the
skin it without hurting my foclings in the very        Since my last  , the

Land     of Egypt has been the House of Bondage to me - the past week having
I    and of Egypt has been the House of Bondage to      the past week having

been an unpleasant medley of broken engagements, frustrated plans,  
been an unpleasant medley of broken engagements  frustrated plans  .

homesickness and sciatica.   At least I suppose sciatica is the gentle
homesickness and sciatica  . At least I suppose sciatica is the gentle

distemper that makes one's left leg feel as though it had been skinned alive
distemper that makes one's left let feel as though it had been skinned alive

and all the muscles torn out slowly with hot forceps. I've managed not to stay
and all the muscles tom  out slowly with hot forceps  I've managed not to stay

in bed and I've also managed to play dominoes, but I've not been up to
in bed and I've also managed to play dominoes  but I've not been up to

anything else,   and in my off hours have shut myself up in my room, swathed
anything else  , and in my off hours have shut myself up in my room  ,      

       in knitted things and packed with    hot water bags, and saying "Hame,
stated in butted  things and back   on   it hot water over  the one    that  

hame, fain wad I  be,   flame,    hame     in my ain countree." To cap the
had   an   old is Beter irational rountree "                    To cap the

climax we are actually having bad weather.   It is now three days since the
al     We are actually having had weather  . It is now three days since the

sunshine has been wholly withdrawn and day before yesterday it actually rained
unshine  has been wholly withdrawn and day before yesterday it actually rained

all day; fortunately only a gentle sprinkle - had it been a good New Haven
all day  fortunately only a gentle sprinkle - had it been a good New Haven

downpour the mud village opposite us would have dissolved before our eyes. On
downpour the mud willave opposite us would have dissolved before our eyes  On

Monday I was to have gone on a picnic to the Valley of the Queens with the
Monday I was to have gone on a picnic to the Valley of the Queens with the

Contessa and Mrs. Pier, but Doris went in my place. On Tuesday I was to have
Contessa and            but Doris went in my plans  On Tuesday I was to have

teaed with Mrs. Daniel Eaton, way up the river on the Arabia,   but had to
teaed with Mrs  Daniel Eaton         the river on the Arabic  , but had to

send a note saying I was too crippled to come. I hope she will carry out her
send a note saying I was luo crippled to              she will eriks on  her

plan of spending a week on her way down.               The other day Doris
plan of spending a week on her way down  come . I hope The other day Doris

rode with Dorothy Richardson over to the abode near Der-el-Bahri       which
rode with Dorothy Richardson over to the abode near Dermal       Bahri which

is called indifferently "the           American House"   or "Mr.     Morgan's
is called ind           Acrently " the American House  " or "    Mis Morgan's

House",   and in which live the men who are managing the Metropolitan
House   " and in which live the mes                  the Metropolitan

excavations, and the wives of said men. When the girls got there  at  ten
excavations  and the wives of said man  When the girl  go  before and he 

o'clock the people were just about to  have breakfast! As digging stops at
has     ben sooo   ooo  ooo  ooo   ooo ooo                                

four-thirty they must have a short day at the Metropolitan Concession. Mr.   
                                   day at the Metropolitan Concession  ,   Mr

  Morgan's eccentric behavior has caused a buzz of comment and conjecture.  
. Morgan's eccentric behavior has caused a buzz of comment and conjecture  .

During the two or three days his dahabya lay here the people at the American 
During the two or three days his dahabya lay here the people at the Brazilian

House spent their time in moving into tents and back again according to
House spell they  lime in moving into tents and back again according to

messages from the Great Man as to whether he was or was not going out there to
Messages from the Great Man as to whether he was or was not going out there to

occupy. He     finally did not go. He had a party of ten on his boat whom he
occupy  .  Ite finally did not go  He had a party of ten on his boat whom he

had invited to go to Khartoum and somehow it leaked out that their lives were
had invited to go to Khartoum and somehow is leaked out that their lives were

a burden to them because their host was so cross and tyrannical. The Khartoum
a burden to them bonuse  their Heat was so cross and tyrannical  The Khartoum

plan was suddenly abandoned and they merely tore up to Aswan and back again,
plan was suddenly abandoned and they merely tore up to As        back again 

being gone only four days.   Then Mr.   Morgan engaged     suites of rooms at
being gone only four days  . Then Mr  . Morgan anga    god suites of coors at

the Winter Palace for his party and before they had time to move into them he
the Winter Palace for his party and before they had time to move             

whisked them all down to 31
                           

Cairo this morning in a special train. The Contessa,   who was over here this
Cairo this morning in a special        The Contests  , who was over here this

afternoon,   says Mohammed Mohassib almost fainted when she told him this
afternoon  , says I        Mohassib almost fainted when she told him this

morning that his prey had escaped him and that he might now bring forth his
morning that his prey hud escaped him and that he might now bring forth his

treasures and let other people have a chance at them. Ex-President Porfirio
treasures and let other people have a chance at them  Ex           -       

Diaz,                     with a boatload of "greasy looking Mexicans" (I'm  
President Porfiria Diaz , with a boatload of greasy  looking Mexicans  "    (

    quoting my daughter)   has recently been tied up in front of Luxor.
I'm quoting my daughter  ) has recently been tied up in front of Luxor 

Dahabyas come and go and the Stars and Stripes seem to preponderate at the
Dababyas come and go and the Stars and Stripss seem to preponderate at the

mast heads. And now  I   will end this weak decoction and crave everyone's
mast heads  And nowI wil and      this weak decoction and crave everyone's

indulgence. Your devoted Mary Sunday. February 16. West    Bank    at Luxor
indulgence  Your devoted Mary Sunday  February is  Dearest Adeline -       

Dearest Adeline:- Today we could once more say joyfully, with the
                  Today we could once more say joyfully  with the

fire-worshippers, "Lo!              the Lord Sun!"   And if we had been
fire              worshippers " Lol the Load Sun!  " And if We had been

without it for a month we could hardly have welcomed it more gladly. Egypt
without it for a month we could hardly have welcomed it more              

would be an intolerable land if it were often gloomy weather.   I'm sure
      be an intolerable land if it were often gloomy weather  . I'm sure

everyone would go mad  and drown  himself and herself        and themselves
everyo   Would go this and growth times   of  god     bersol and the       

in    Old  Nile. Doris went       to church alone this morning and brought
black cold old   Nie   Don't want to church plane this morning and brought

back the Contessa to luncheon.   She stayed a long time,   and after Cousin
back the Contessa to luncheon  , She stayed a long lime  , and after Cousin

Theodore and Doris had gone for their ride, she held Cousin Emma and me
Theodore and Doris had gone for their ride  she held Cousin Emma and me

enthralled, as the three of    us        sat         in  the    sunshine on   
enthralled  as of  her   first husband's experiences and gothic of       which

deck,    with the story of  her first husband's experiences and death in
anderson does the for   the s   and   remedi    ed              death in

Central Africa, whither he went with Stanley. When she had finished I felt
Central Africa  whither he went with Stanley  When she had finished I felt

literally tired    from my emotions. It was like a Henry Seton novel   for
literally emotions .                 It was like a Tent  Seton reading    

interest and quite ghastly and heart-rending. When I come home I'll tell the
                                              When   come home to   tell the

story to anyone who wants to hear it, but I   do not   want to write it. The
story to anyone who wants a  head is  but Ido In write it   .            The

one time I laughed this afternoon        was at a scene on the bank.   The
one time I laughed this a         femoon was at a scene on the bank  . The

black dog and the yellow dog, who have constituted themselves guardians of the
black dog and the yellow dog  who have constituted themselves guardians of the

Beduin for the sake of the food they get, started to fight and were stopped by
                                they get  started to fight and were stopped by

the turkey cock who, with all his feathers spread and gobbling furiously,
the Turkey cook who  with all his feathers spread and gobbling furiously 

rustled in between them.   It was really one of the funniest things I ever
rustled in between them  . It was really one of the funniest things I ever

saw.   Monday, February 17. Nothing much to record today except a furious wind
Mandan         February IT  Nothing much to record today except a furious wind

which at one time this morning seemed as though it would tear us from our
which at one time this morning seemed as though it would fear is from one

moorings and blow us  across the river. After luncheon I left the boat for the
moorings and blow its across the Aher         luncheon [ Tell the boat for the

first time in eight gays   and crossed over to Luxor in the sailing felucca
first time in eight that's and crossed over to Luxor in the selling felice 

(and     a dashing little sail   it  has) to see if an electrical treatment
(    and a dashing litle  sailit has      to see it an alcotrica  treatment

would relieve the ache that had possession of me.   I think it did somewhat.  
would relieve the ache that had possession of me  , I think it did somewhat  .

It felt good at the time anyway. Luxor looked almost new to  me  -   it   had
It fell good at the time balance out   look   like   an  old are you like to 

been so long since I   saw       it. The Hardys came to tea; they are very
stop in both were  ely agreeable ,                                        

agreeable, but it is much easier to imagine Mr. Hardy leading a diplomatic
           but it is much easier to imagine MI  Hard  leading a diplomatic

life than Mrs.    Tuesday. I missed a great treat today because of my
life than Tuesday .        I missed a great treat today because of my

rheumatism. Harry Burton invited Mr. and Mrs. Pier and Doris and me over to
rheumatism  Larry Burton invited Mrs .        Pier and Doris and me over to

the valley to luncheon and to see the sarcophagus lid in Siphta which has at
the valley to luncheon and to see the sarcophagus lid in Sophia which has on

last been turned over under the supervision of one of Maspero's experts from
have been turned over under the supervision of one of Nispero's exports from

the      museum. The Piers and Doris went and had a gorgeous time. The lid is
gorgeous time    .                                                 The lid is

something unknown in the history of sarcophagi. There are four figures carved
something unknown in             of sarcophagi  There are four figures carved

in relief upon it - the King is the central                                
in relies upon it   the kils is the central thisonpersonal here are fortres

                     figure and there is a little child at each shoulder.
fromrest of his head figure and there is a little child at cach sho      

Then    on one side of him is Isis, on the other Nephtys, and scattered about
Nephtis ,                                                 and scattered about

somewhere are a crocodile and a snake. After my luncheon I crossed to Luxor
somewhere are a crocodile and a snake  liter my luncheon I crossed to Luxur

for electricity and on coming back found Doris had just returned and was
for electricity and on coming back found Doris had just returned and was

sitting on deck with Newton Byers, one of Roger's classmates,   who has been
sitting on deck with Newton Byers  one of Roger's classmates  , who has been

dragged, an unwilling victim,   to Egypt by his family.   They are on their
dragged  an unwiling  victim  . to Egypt by tos family  . They are on their

way up the river on the 32
way up to  river on the   

Rameses III.   Senator Aldrich came to tea and gave us some authentic
Ramses  II   . Senator Aldrich came to les and gave us some suthentic

information as to the cause of   Mr. Morgan's erratic behavior. He  says Mr.  
information is to the cause OFME .   SO       erratic behavior  Ife says Mr  .

Morgan was far from well and was greatly disappointed in his new dahabya
Morgan was Gir from wall and was greatly disappointed in his new lullaby

"Kargeh" because she was so slow, and that everything seemed to go wrong,  
Karson   because she was so now   and that everything seemed to go wrong  ,

and he got tired of the whole business and dashed back to Cairo. Wednesday,
and he got tired of the whole business and dashed back to Cairo  Wednesday 

February 19.         Today I had a distinct sensation.   I went over this
.        Echtuary 19 Today I had a distinct sensation  . I went over this

afternoon to the Rameses III to call on Mrs. and Miss Byers, whom I found very
afternoon to the Ramses  Ill to call on Mars and Miss Byers  whom I found very

pleasant - Miss Byers struck me as being a quite rare and lovely person - and
pleasant . Miss Byers struck me as being a quite fare and lovely person - and

while there I saw no less a person than Rudyard Kipling.   It seemed so
while there I saw no less a person than Rudyard Kipling  . It seemed so

strange that that little (he's very short)   commonplace looking man should be
strange tha  the  (      he's  very short  ) commonplace linking man should be

packed with such extraordinary genius.   I went on from the Rameses to the
packed with such extraordinary genius  . I went an from the Remeses to the

Winter Palace to have tea with Mrs.   Pier and Madam  Legrain, and then home.
Winter Palace to have for with Mrs  . Pier and Madein Legrains and then home 

And tonight Doris dined on the  Rameses  with the Byers and then drove with
And tonight Doris dined on live Ratheses With the Byers and then drove with

them to Karnak to see that wondrous place in the moonlight.   She says it
them to Kartik to see that wondrous place in the moonlight  . She says it

surpassed any moonlight vision she ever heard or dreamed of. Thursday,
surpassed any moonlight vision she ever heard or dreamed of  Thursday 

February 20. The memory of today will always be a mingled one of the Contessa
February 20. The memory of today wil  always be a mingled one of the Contests

and grateful warmth.   The Contessa invited me to spend the day with her,   so
and graceful warmth  . The Contessa invited me to spend the day with her  , so

I went over about noon and we sat and  baked in the sheltered sunlight in the
I went over about now  and we sat auld baked in the shellered sunlight in the

Luxor Hotel garden. It must be 15 or 20 degrees warmer on that side of the
Luxor Hotel garden  In must be 15 or ZU degrees water  on that side of the

river than with us, and I've been hankering for the heat of the sun to
river than with us  and I've been hankering for the heat of the sun to

annihilate my aches.   The Luxor Hotel itself is a gloomy place and I can't
annihilate my aches  . The Luxor Hotel itself is a gloomy place and I can't

think why the Contessa chooses to stay there.   The garden is the only
think why the Contessa chooses to stay there  . The garden is the only

tolerable part. We had coffee there after luncheon in the dismal dining room,
tolerable part  We had                    luncheon in the dismal dining room 

and then we made a tour of the antiquity shops which I found vastly amusing.
and then we made a four of the antiquity shops which I found mostly amusing 

Everywhere it was woe  at Mr. Morgan's departure without even a look at things
Everywhere it was were at Mor Mongan's departure without even a look at things

that had been saved for him for weeks.   It was at Hassan's at the end of our
that had been saved for him for weeks  . It was at Hassan's at the end of our

rounds,   that I saw the only things I really wanted.   It's surprising how 
ands    , that I saw the only things I really wanted  . It's surprising hour

ephemeral many of one's desires prove themselves if one refrains from plunging
ephemeral many of one's desires prove themselves if one refrains from whinging

into buying the moment one gets to a strange place.   Dozens of things I
time            moment one gets to a strange place  . Dozens of things I

thought fascinating when I first began to look about the shops,   I now pass
thought fascinating when I hogan       to look about the shops  , I now pass

with averted gaze because they tire me so. But Hassan brought out ten little
with averted gaze because they tire me so  But Hassan         out too little

alabaster jars (tumbler shaped) with          a cartouche sunk in the side of
alabaster jars (        Tumbler shaped ) itis a cartouche sunk in the side of

each and colored blue, and an alabaster cover to each the size and shape of a
each and colored blue  and an alabaster cover to each the size and shape of a

large cream peppermint,   and I coveted them with my whole heart. But the
large Great peppermint  , and I covered them with my whole heart  But the

price of even one of the darling things was too much for me.   Hassan's shop
price of even one of the darling things was the much for me  . Hassan's shop

is quite a mansion with all his treasures on the second floor.   You mount a
is quite a mansion with all his treasures on the second floor  . You mount a

flight of stone stairs which would be imposing if it were not for the traces
light  of stone stairs which would be imposing if it Were not for the traces

of many chickens, and while you are poking about among the antiques a tiny
of many chickens  and while you are poking about among the antiques a tiny

page in red and white brings you coffee, of the best, in dainty cups. I
page in red and white brings you cotton  of the best  in linly  cups  I

brought the Contessa home   with    me for tea. Friday, February 21. And a
brought the Contessa Friday Flimary 21                               And a

perfectly commonplace day.   Calls with Cousin Emma this afternoon and tea at
perfectly commonplace day  . Calls with Cousin Emma this afternoon and tea at

the Winter Palace, which seems to be more or less packed with freaks at
the Winter Palace  which seems to to more of less packed with freaks at

present - ladies who wear thin white dresses with no petticoats and pose in
present   ladies who wear thin white dresses with no petticoats and pose in

the doorway with miles of Egyptian sunlight behind them. On our way back to
the doorway with miles of Beoption sunlight behind them  On our way back to

the Beduin the felucca was caught in the wash from the Aswan boat just coming
the Bedin  the felucca was caught in the wash from the Asian boat just coming

down the river,   and from the deck of it Mr. and Mrs. Dodge and Janet waved.
down the river  , and from the dock of it Mar and Mrs  Dodge and Janet waved 

  Washington's Birthday. - and a nice American day as befits an American on
. Washington's Birthday    and a nice American day as befits an american on

February 22 wherever she happens to be. I played dominoes all the morning and
February 22 wherever she happens to be  ( played dominoes all the morning and

in the afternoon I crossed over to Luxor, ordered a carriage, annexed those
in the afternoon I crossed over to Luxor  ordered a carriage  annexed those

enchanting Pier children and drove out to the Savoy to call on Mrs.   Daniel
enchanting Pier children and drove out to the Savoy    call on Mon  . Daniel

Eaton.   As we passed along the waterfront -"Children"          said I, "do   
Eaton  , As we passed along the waletion   .           Children said I  "   do

you know why all the American boats are dressed in flags today?" "No",     
you know Why all the American boats are But     in fans  today   in    No "

said the sweet little voices. "You                                      don't
said the sweet little voices  "    You Why it's Washington's Birthday " don't

know what day this is?" "No",     expectantly and excitedly. "Why, it's
know what do  hel  No   celestial             and society    city  is  

Washington's Birthday". "Oh, is it? Why,     I don't believe Father and Mother
workinglate  Birthday   Oh   in it  ?    Why I don't believe Father and Mother

know it." "Then you must tell  them when we get back". Mrs. Eaton and Mrs. Van
kno  get  back  "   Mrs  Baton and  Mrs  .                                 Van

Winkle were out, and we drove back again all too soon.   As 33
Winkle wore out  and we douve back again all too soon  . As   

we again passed the patriotic display of bunting that adorable Eleanor Pier,
We again passed the patriotic display of bunting that adorable Eleanor Dies 

aged seven, said  "Whose birthday is this?   Did you say it was President
aged seven  Whose        birthday is this  ? Did you say it was President

Taft's?"     The Dodges joined me at the Winter Palace and we had tea on the
after    ? " The Dodges joined me at the Winter Palace and we had tea on the

rear terrace,   and it was awfully nice to be with friends from my native
rear terrace  , and it was awfully nice to be with friends from my alive 

state. Doris and Janet Dodge had spent the whole morning together at Karnak,
state  Der's and love  Doder had spent the whole morning together at Kamil  

so Doris thought she would better ride to the diggings with Cousin T. instead
So Doris thought she would better ride to the diggings with Cousin           

of coming to tea. Now I'm going to wind up with two  nice, appropriate little
of coming to sea  Now I'm going to wind up with tive nice  appropriate litle 

tales. Two or three years ago when on the 22nd of February the Beduin was in
tales  Two or three years ago when on the 2and of February the Bedwin was in

her gala dress to do honor to the day,   the Duke and Duchess of Connaught,
her gala dress to do honor to the day  . the Duke and Duchess of Connaught 

coming down the river from Aswan, thought it was in their honor,   and did
coming down the river from Aswan  thought it was in their honor  , and did

everything except fire a salute to express their appreciation of the
everything except fire a salute to express their appreciation of the

attention! And once in the days when my relatives had that superb dragoman
attention! And once in the days When my relatives had that superb dragoman

Mohammed Sala (that      was before Jones had qualified as a dragoman) he was
Mohammed Sala (     that was before Jones had qualified as a drayoman  he was

much offended that he had not been informed the day beforehand that this
much offended that he had not been informed the day beforehand that this

important anniversary was pending.      Hearing someone say at the breakfast
important anniversary was pend     ng . Hearing someone say at the breakfast

table "This      is Washington's Birthday - the boat must be dressed", he
table "     This is Washington's Birthday - the bust must be dressed   he

hurried out. Returning he said to Cousin Emma  "Madam,         the cook say it
buried  out  Refunding he said to Cousin Froma "       Madam , the bank say it

is not possible to prepare a fitting luncheon for the day without some
is not possible to prepare a fitting luncheon for the day without some

notice." "I     didn't want a special luncheon -   the cook gives us too much
notice   .  "IT didn't want a special luncheon ook          gives us too much

to eat always, as it is", said Madam. At the close of luncheon, entered
to eat always  as it is   said Madam  At the close of luncheon  entered

Mohammed Sala, bearing a colossal cake with the American flag in colored
Mohammed Sala  bearing a colossal cake with the American flag in colored

frosting on it. He placed it on the table and with a look of deep reproach at
frosting on it  He placed it on the table and with a look of doop reproach at

Cousin Emma,   he announced "Le gateau        pour Mr. Washington!"           
Cousin Emma  , he announced "   Ce     gascan pour Mr  .            Washington

  I had the pleasure of seeing Mohammed Sala today.   On getting into the
" I had the pleasure of seeing Mohammed Sala today  . On gelling into the

felucca after leaving the Winter Palace, the men held it while beckoning and
felucca after leaving the Winter Palace  the men held it while beckoning and

calling to someone on the neighboring boat. Then Sala came hurrying along the
culling to someone on the neighboring boat  Then Sala came hurrying along the

bank, stepped into the felucca and bowed low over my hand. He said he was here
bank  stopped into the felucca and bowed low over my hand  He said he was here

"with one prince". After      an exchange of compliments he departed.   He is
with  one prince   "     Nier an exchange of compliments he departed  . He is

usually with important people. He was twice with the Empress of Austria,   and
usually with portant   people  He was ovice with the Empress of Austria  , and

she nearly killed him walking out   to   the Pyramids from Cairo and back
she nearly killed him walking WHERE Fend FOR ON       a    Lot   of  Good

every   morning   before breakfast. Goodnight, dears all, Your devoted Mary
MORNING Goodnight ,      Hears      all                   Your devoted Mary

Monday. February 24. West Bank at Luxor Dearest Adeline: - The Contessa and I
Monday  February 24                     Dearest Adeline  . The Contessa and I

had planned to go on a picnic a deux to the tombs of the Nobles today,   but
had planned to go on a picnic a doux to the tombs of the Nobles today  , but

at breakfast time a boat brought a note saying a heavy cold on her chest
at breakfast time a boat brought a note saying a heavy cold on her chest

prevented her going.   As I had on my hateful riding things (never      
prevented her going  . As I had on my hateful riding things (      never

donned except for my donkey)   I   decided to take a ride anyway. Neither
donned except for my donkey  ) I ( decided to take a mile Anyway  Nether 

Doris nor  Cousin Theodore would go with me, so I    went  alone, quite
ton's hole social theodore would go with me  so over alone ,      quite

thrilled because it was the first time in fifteen days that I had ridden. It
thrilled because it was the first time in fifteen days that I had ridden  I 

was the dullest ride I ever had.   Wadi Halfa needed the inspiration of others
was the dillon  ride I ever had  . Wadi Halfa needed the inspiration of others

of his kind.   We started off with Malimond tugging at his head and a sailor
of his kind  . We started off with Malimand tugging at his head and a sailor

pushing from behind. Shouts, cluckings,             gurglings had no effect
pushing from behind  Shouts  ,          cluckings , gurglings had no effect

whatever on him. Whacks simply made his hindquarters go suddenly sideways in
whatever on him  Whacks simply made his hindquarters so suddenly sideways in

the disconcerting movement that almost unseats me.   It took me  an hour to
the disconcerting movement that almost unseals the . It look the so how  to

get out to the  Colossi, so    there I turned about, relinquishing the Valley
get out 10 like Colussi  Where       I turned about  relinquishing the Valley

of the Queens for which I was headed   and which I've not yet seen. If
of the Queens for which I was Molimond and                            

Malimond and the sailor had even talked to each other it would have been less
             the sailor had even talked to each other it would have been less

depressing.   I kept getting sadder and sadder and Egypt began to seem to me a
depressing  . I kept getting sadder all sadder and kept  began to seem to me a

lonely land  of Doom, when I was suddenly cheered by the sight of a camel
lovely books          when   was suddenly beered  by the night of a came 

loaded with trunks and making for the American House. A camel can always pluck
loaded will think  and making for the American House. A camel can always pluck

me  out of melancholy. It was very hot coming home and I had to keep my veil
the out of melancholy  It was very hot coming home and I had to keep my veil

down to prevent                breathing tiny  black flies. 34
down to prevent bre to prevent breathing filly black flies    

This afternoon Cousin Emma   and I, in response to the Contessa's
This afternoon Could  Family and I  in response to the Contrast's

importunities,        went over and teaed with her in the Luxor        Hotel
important      lies , went over and aged  with her in the .     U X Or Hotel

gardens.   She was very hoarse and the ground 'was very damp, but the sunshine
gardens  , She was very hoarse and the ground was  very damp  but the sunshine

lovely,   the tea delicious and there were three other guests,   quite
lovely  , the fox delicious and there were three other guests  , quite

charming -     Lady    Baring, Mrs.   Murray and the Countess Pauline
charming Lally Blaring .       Mrs  . Murray and the Countess Pauline

Pappenheim. I talked to the latter all the time,   and I'm thankful I don't
Papponheim  I talked to the latter all the time  , and I'm thankful I don't

fall in love with men as easily as I do with women. The Countess Pauline is a
fall in love with men us curly  as I do with women  The Counters Pauline is a

girl after my own heart - about Doris's age,   I should think, and with a very
     after my own heart - about Doris's age  . I should think  and with a very

noble sort of beauty, and too sweet.   She told me she was half American -
noble sort of beauty  and too sweet  . She told me she was half American -

that her mother was a Philadelphian,   but I don't know who.   And all this
that her mother was a Philadelphian  , but I don't know who  . And all this

time I've been skipping ye4terday which may be briefly summarized as follows:
time I've been skipping yesterday which may be briefly summarized as follows 

  The boisterous Mr. Whymper came to breakfast. (I've      decided all that
: The boisterous Mor Whymper came to breakfast  .     I've decided all that

excitable volubility is his company manner,    because when he crosses over
excitable volubility in his company !       er because when he crosses over

with Doris and me in the felucca on our way to church he is quite pleasantly
with Don's and me in the felucca on our way to church he is quite pleasantly

quiet, and his face in repose is sad.)   I went to church and after service
quick  and his face in repose is sad   ) I went to church and adler he     

had  a little  talk with Mrs. Daniel Eaton and Mrs. Van Winkle for whom I
door . Brought Me   .                      and ME                        

waited outside the door. Brought Mr. and Mrs. Pier home with me for luncheon.
                                                             me for luncheon.

They grow more and more delightful.   Two English ladies came to tea - Mrs.
They grow more and more delightful  . Two English ladies came to tea - Mira

Morhouse,        hushed and gentle and sweet  - and Mrs. Aylmer, who         
Mo        theuse hushed and gentle and street - and Mrs  .       Summer . Who

might easily be colonel of a regiment.   I believe her  husband is. Yesterday
might easily be colonel of a regiment  . I believe they he                   

was the warmest day we've had, I think,   and today there has been a touch of
        warmest day we've had  I think  , and today there has been a touch of

Khamseen - the hot, thick wind of Egypt.   It made the sunset tonight one of
Khamse     the how  thick Wind of Egypt  . It made the sunset tonight one of

opaque, almost suffocating gold. Tuesday. February 25. The comings and goings
opaque  wmost  suffocating gold  Tuesday  February 25  The comings and goings

today have been crowded. Doris and I dashed across the river immediately after
today have been crowded  Doris and I dashed across the river immediately after

breakfast to buy Soudanese beads together,   and then I dashed back again,  
breakfast to buy Soudanese beads together  , and then I dashed back again  ,

leaving her to play with Dorothy Richardson.   Just after I returned to the
leaving her to play with Dorothy Richardson  . Just after ( returned to the

Beduin, Harry arrived for his holiday, courteously wearing the necktie I
Bednin  ,     lived   for his holiday  toously     wearing the necktie I

crocheted for his Christmas present. He presently crossed over to have his
crocheted for his Christmas present  He presently crossed over to have lus

hair cut and pick up Doris.   I was in the middle of a game of dominoes when I
hair cut and pick up Doris  . I was in the middle of   game of dominoes when I

heard a voice on the land side of us demanding "Is anybody at home?   Is
heard a voice on the land side of us demanding is  anybody at home  ? Is

anybody at home?   Is Mrs.   Newberry in?"     and Mrs.   Eaton and Mrs.   Van
anybody at home  ? Is Mrs  . Newberry in   ? " and Mrs  . Eaton and Mrs  . Van

Winkle descended from a sand cart and entered via the gangplank.   They'd been
Winkle descended from a sand cart and entered via the gangplank  . They'd been

to the Ramesseum - or somewhere. A     brief visit and they departed after I'd
to the Ramesscum - or somewhere  brick wal         and they departed ster  to 

shown them over the dahabya. Then Harry       and Doris came.   Luncheon next.
shows them over the data     me   then  flair and Done  Care  . Luncheon next 

After       which the two young people went for a sail.   About 4 P.M.   who
.     Aller which the two young people went for a sail  . About 4 PM   , who

should arrive - taking my breath away with the violence      of the surprise -
Would  arrive . taking my breath away with the vio      ence of the surprise -

but Karl Weston (Professor           of Romance Languages at Williams)   whom
but Karl Weston (          Professor of Romance Languages at Wiliams   ) whom

I last saw twelve years ago when we took tea together in a chestnut tree at
I last saw twelve years ago when we look to  together in a chestnut tree at

that queer place "Robinson"          outside of Paris. Close on heels came Mr.
that queer place "          Robinson outside of Paris  Close in heels         

and Mrs. Hardy and Dorothy Richardson,   who had been asked to tea. Cousin
and Mrs  Hardy and Dorothy Richardson  , who had been asked to tea  Cousin

Theodore went below and couldn't see anybody. Then at 7:15 Doris, in   her
Thandove well below and couldn't be  anybody  Then at Its  Docks  what we 

war  paint, went across the river to dine and dance at the Winter Palace - so
cant wel                                                                     

it's been almost as hectic as some of the  days at home .  Doris just back at
                 as hectic as some of back      at 1    30                   

11.30 and says she Bostoned most of the evening with Newton Byers - of 1912 S.
      and says she Bostoned most of the Wenton              Byers   of 1    1 

- and     saw the family of that Perfect Beauty, Radcidiffe Romeyn, 1912      
2 shesaid saw the body   of too  based   Beauty  hadever    Newon   Byers - of

          Captain of the Yale Crew. Wednesday. February 26. I called this
19125 412 Captain of the Yale Crew                          I called this

afternoon on the Romeyns on their steamer and was very glad to see them,   but
afternoon on the Romeyns on their steamer and was very glad to see them  , but

was freshly impressed with how awful it would be to go about in a Cook's party
was freshly impressed with how awful it would be to go about in a Cook's party

- infinitely better though than not to go at all. Mrs. Romeyn         said she
- Infinitely better though than not to go ul all  Mrs  .      Romneyn said she

had almost despaired of seeing us because the only information Radcliff  could
had almost despaired of seeing us because the only information Radcliffe could

give her of our whereabouts when she bade him good-bye,         was that we
give her of our whereabouts when she bade him good      - bye , was that we

"were travelling with some big bug on a private dahabya  that tied up 
were  travelling with some bie bus on a private dahabyes that lied the

anywhere it pleased along the Nile". They go on to Aswan  tomorrow.   I teaed
Nile     "                           They go on to Assign tomorrow  . I alone

at   the Winter Palace with Mr. Weston and had a lovely time. That is a most
will Not                        Weston and led a lovely wave  that is a lost

congenial young man, and it seems  absurd, when he lives in Williamstown and
control   young man  and i  seelos                                       and

we in New Haven,         that we should meet only once in ten  years or so in
we in New I      laven , that we should meet only once in tell years or so in

the top of chestnut trees in Paris,   or at Hundred Gated Egyptian Thebes. 35
the top of chestnut trees in Paris  , or al Hundred Gated Egyptian Thebes    

I wonder if it's often given to human eyes to see anything more beautiful than
  wonder if it's often given to human eyes to see anything more beautiful than

the Libyan Range was to mine as I saw it from the front terrace of the Winter
the Libyan Range was to mine as I saw it from the front terrace of the Winter

Palace today in all the splendor and the glamour of the late afternoon light.
Palace today in all the splendor in  he  glamour of the late afternoon light 

It strikes me with fresh joy every time I look at it from  that particular
It strikes me with fresh joy every time I look at it froze that particular

place and at that hour.   The Beduin has sunk so with the falling river that
place and at that hour  . The Beguin has suck so with the falling river that

from the salon  we can no longer see even the tip-top     of the Range, and
from the salons we can no longer see even the tip     top of the Range  and

even from the upper deck we do not get it in its full majesty as they do from
even from the upper deck we do not get it in its full majesty as they do from

the Winter Palace.   When we first tied up here we could see the Range and all
the Winter Palace  . When we first tied up here we could see the Range and all

the intervening stretch of desert and green from the salon window - which will
the intervening stretch of deser  and green from the salon window   which will

give you some idea of how the river has dropped. When I got back to the Beduin
give you some idea of how the river has dropped  When I got back to the Bedun 

I found Mrs. Pier     and the Countess having tea.   They had stopped on their
I found Mrs  .    Her and the Countess having toa  . They had stopped on their

way home from an all day expedition to the Valley of the Tombs of the Apes.
way home from an all day expedition to the Valey  of the Tombs of the Apes 

They had asked Doris and me to go,   but we  declined because Cousin T. was
They had asked Don's and me to go  , but vic declined because Cousin I  was

not feeling well. Thursday. February 27. This morning Cousin Emma   and Doris
not feeling we    2         .            This morning Cousin Ermine and nor's

went over to Luxor to see Mohammed Mohassib and the Luxor temple, etc.   while
went over                 Mohammed Mehassit and the Luxor temple  etc  . while

Cousin Theodore and I settled ourselves with the dominoes on deck.   In the
Cousin Theodore and I settled ourselves with the dominoes on deck  . In the

middle of a game the sound of many bleats arose upon the air - ranging from
middle of a      the sound of many bicats eroge upon the air   ranging from

deep paternal ones to tiny appealing baby calls, and over the sands came a    
deep paternal ones to ling appealing baby bells  and over the sands came block

flock of dark brown sheep with four men and some children shepherding them.  
      of dark brown shoop with four men and some children shepherding them  .

They came straight to the little cove just at the stern of the Beduin. Three
They came straight to the little cove just at the stern of the Beduin  Three

of the men stripped to the loincloth,   and each grabbed a sheep and walked
of the men stripped to the loincloth  , and each rabbed  a shoup and walked

into the river to wash it, while the children and the fourth man kept the rest
into the river to wash it  while the children and the fourth man keep the rest

of the flock together, and one small naked boy wrestled with a ram. It was a
of the flock together  and one small naked hoy wrestled with a ram  It was a

very interesting sight and I was so annoyed when the native policeman, who 
very Interesting sight and I was so annoyed when the native policeman  whit

spends his day over here to see that no one steals our turkeys, strolled up
spends his day over here to see that no one steals our tuckers  strolled up

and ordered them away from the sacred precincts of the dahabya. This afternoon
and ordered them away from the gutted precincts of the databya  Band          

Doris and Cousin Theodore rode over to the diggings and I went for a long
          Cousin Theodore rode over to the diggings and I went for a long

walk.   My Monday attempt proved that my leg is still too lame for riding.
walk  . My Monday attempt proved that my leg is still too lume for riding 

Away to the north,   standing in a   row in the most obvious       and
Away to the north  , standing in how     in the most of      would and

posterish manner, with the far end of the Range  as     a    background, are
baltic    name    With the for one of The Kansas Tracks name             are

three palm trees. They look exactly like the funny pictures of the African
three palm trees  They look exactly like the funny pictures of the African

desert with an artist up in one of them while a lion lashes his tail in front
desert with an artist up in one of them while a tion lashes his fail in front

of a deserted easel below.   Cousin Emma says she has hated those palm trees
of a deserted case  below  . Cousin Emma says the has hated those palm trees

for years,   and even I have got deadly tired of them  this winter.   So I
for years  , and even I have got deadly tired of thein this winter  . So I

walked to them  to see if I liked them better at close range.   The first part
walked to theal to see if I liked them better at close range  . The first part

of the walk led along  the sands by the river's edge where the natives are
of the walk led airing the sands by the river's edge where the natives are

planting their melons. Vast stretches of little hillocks, with short bunches
planning their links                                      with short bunches

of dry cane in them to keep the sand together, show where melons have already
of dry cane in them to keep the sand together  show where melons love abeady 

been planted,   and little oblong bunches, about the size of a large
been planted  , and little oblong bunches  about the size of a large

watermelon,   show where others are to be planted. There ought to be an
watermelon  , show where others are to be planted  There ought to be an

enormous crop in this immediate  vicinity alone.   Then I struck inland past a
enormous crop in this isonediate vicinily alone  . Then I struck inland past a

native village which has always looked so charming in the                
native village which has always looked so charming in the ridge broken by

            distance and which was very squalid really. Along a     little
shadufs and distance and which was very squalld really  does  litle while 

ridge broken by shadufs and a     complaining saldheh around which a cow
      broken by shades  and i the complaining satch   around which a cow

toiled. I like them best when a camel is working them. Camels always look so
toiled  I like                                         Camels always look so

absolutely superior to anything they may be doing.   I heard such a nice
absolutely superior to anything they may be doing  . I heard such a nice

reason the other day for the superciliousness of the camel.   Allah has one
reason the other day for the superciliousness of the camel  . Allah Las one

hundred names -the Faithful          know ninety-nine      of them but the
hundred names -    the      Fruitful know ninety      nine of them but the

camel knows  the hundredth!...   Then I cut across a cultivated little gully,
caine baum's the hundredth     . Then I cut across a cultivated linde  guilty

climbed up the other side and, behold, the three palm  trees, looking quite
climbed up the other side and  behold  the three freon ,      looking quite

lovely and presiding over the very verdant outskirts of a tiny village. I came
love   and presiding over the very verdant outskirts of a tiny village  I came

back another way and was ready for quarts of tea when I got here. 36
back another way and was ready for quarts of tea when I got here    

Friday. February   28. And our last day here until we stop on our way down  
Friday  February28     And our last day bere whi   we stop on our way during

to Cairo. I went across to Luxor this morning to say good-bye       to Mrs.  
to Cairo  I we   across to Luxor this morning to say good     - bye to Mrs  .

Pier and have a final scalp treatment.   The tonic they apply is made,   they
Pier and have a final scalp treatment  . The tonic they apply is made  , they

say, from the juice of the palm tree.   This morning when the German youth who
say  from the juice of the palm tree  . This morning when the German youth who

has had recent charge of my sparse tresses dabbed on said tonic,   I exclaimed
has had recent charge of my sparse tresses dabbed on said tonic  , I exclaimed

"Oh! that stings!" "Yes, madam,                it is de stink of de palm"  
Oh   that stings   ,     "      " Yes , madain it is do stink of do palm  "

was his apt rejoinder. Cousin Emma and I had a wondrous drive this afternoon.
was his apt rejoinder                                                        

Neither she nor I had been to the diggings at Medinet Habu  for weeks. When we
                                  diggings at Medinet fabul for weeks  When we

announced we were going Cousin T. said he did not wish us to as we would
announced we were going Cousin I  said he did not wish us to as we would

interfere with the work.   He and Doris go ever every other day,   but when we
interfere with the work  . He and Doris go over every other day  , but when we

suggest going he seems to think that our presence will block everything. We
suggest going he seems to think that our presence will block everything  We

took the felucca and rowed down to the ferry landing where a carriage with two
took the felucca and rowed down to the ferry landing where a carnage  with two

mules awaited us, and I was internally much amused when Cousin Emma gave the
mules wailed  us  and I was internally much amused when Cousin Emma gave the

driver the simple order "Medinet Habu",      for the Valley of the Queens was
driver the simple order "        Medine Habu for the Valley of the Queens was

supposed to be our object.   But as we were crazy to see the things Harry had
supposed to be our object  . But    we were crazy to see she things Harry hed

excavated since our last visit - namely the palace of Rameses III.   We found
excavated since our last visit - amely  the palace of Ramses  Ill  . We found

Harry trying to take a photograph,         while his hundred boys and men
arry  trying to take a photo       graph , while his hundred boys and men

proceeded on their endless procession to the dumping place.   The throne room
proceeded on their endless procession to the dumping place  . The throne room

and three bathrooms are     what have, thus far, been brought to light.   As
and three bathroo   is  ace what have  thus far  een  brought to light  . As

the bathrooms open directly off the throne room, to the casual and frivolous
the bathrooms open directly off the throne room  to the casual and frivolous

eye it would seem that the king divided his time between sitting on his throne
ove it would seem that the king divided his time between sitting on his throne

and a-washing           of hisself.   On our way to our carriage we were held
and a         - washing of Hisself  . On our way to our carriage we were held

up by a native who produced a bandana tied up in a wad from which he took out
up by a native who produced   bandana tied up in A wad from which he took out

four little carved bone images, which he told us,   in a scared whisper,  
four file   arved  bone images  which he told us  . in a scared whisper  ,

came from Lord Carnarvon's diggings. Cousin Emma  wished to buy them for
came from Lord Curmarvin's diggings  Cousin Froma wished to buy them to 

Doris,   but had forgotten her purse.   The man agreed to take the entire
Doris  , but had forgotten her purse  . The man agreed to take the entire

contents of mine,   though it fell short of the ten shillings he asked.   When
contents of mine  , though it fell short of the ten shillings he asked  . When

too late we realized that this transaction left us with no backshis for
too late we realized that this transaction loft us with no backshis for

anybody.   On we went to the Valley of the Queens - a lovely desert drive,  
anybody  . On we went to the Valley of the Queens - a lovely desert drive  ,

and to my eye a much happier valley than that of the Kings,   because of the
and    my eye a much happier valley than that of the Kings  , because of the

wide and beautiful view from its  entrance away down  to         the river and
wide and beautiful view from upon being    upon bette controlled by           

on to the far  Arabian Mts. On our arrival at the tombs and upon being
      the game ,                              the                     

confronted by the gaffir, we remembered we'd left our passes at home. But the
                             remembered we'd of   our passes at home  but the

magic name of Davis opened the way.   But then we fell back in the carriage
magic name of Davis opened the way  . But then we fell back in the carriage

explaining we had no       backshis. Broad smiles on the face of the gaffir
explaining we had backshis Brand           smiles on the face of the gather

and a courteous assurance that that made no difference.   I wanted mainly to
and   courteous Assurance that that made no difference  . I wanted mainly to

see the tomb of Nefertari so I went into that, and if that Queen was as lovely
see the tomb of Nefertan  so I went into that  and if that Queen was as lovely

as her pictures on those walls, Rameses II must have been crazy about her. The
as her pictures on those walls  Ramses  II must have been crazy About her  The

drive back to the river was enchanting - the air so fresh, so calm,   so
drive back to the river was enchanting - the air so fresh  so calm  , so

scented,   the barley fields such a rejoicing green, everything so beautiful
scented  , the bailey fields such a rejoicing green  everything so beautiful

in the ecstatic light of afternoon.   The river reached,   no backshis for the
in the ecstatic light of afternoon  . The river cached   , no backshis for the

driver,   but he was quite satisfied when we told him Mr.   Jones would attend
driver  , but he was quite satisfied when we told him Mr  . Jones would tend  

to that (Jones       is almost as much a name to conjure by as Davis.   Also
to that (      Jones is almost as much a name to conjure by as Davis  . Also

there was no felucca, we having forgotten to tell it when to come back for us!
there was to felucca  we having forgotten to tell it when to come back for us 

A Winter Palace boat clamored for the honor of taking us to our dahabya,
A Winter Palace boat clamored for the linor of taking us to our databya 

brutally pushing aside one lone tourist wishing to cross to said Palace.  
brutally pushing aside he  lone tourist wishing to cross to said Palace  .

Just started in the Winter Palace boat, up dashed our own felucca,   the men
Just started in the Winter Palace boat, up dashed our own felucca  , the man

rowing like mad, and we were transferred, the Winter Palace boatmen perfectly
mowing like mad  and we were transferred  the Winter Palace boatmen effectly 

satisfied when we said Mr.   Jones would see them.   The whole  expedition was
satisfied when we said Mr  . Jones would see them  . The sstole expedition was

awfully amusing. Saturday. On our way up the River.   We "hit the trail" (as
awful   Saturday           On our way up the River  . We hit  the wail   (  

   we used to say in my beloved wild west)   at 7:20 this morning,   and it
as we used to say in my beloved wild west  ) at 7:20 this morning  , and it

was high time for us to be moving,   for Cousin Theodore was getting tired of
was high time for us to be moving  , for Cousin Theodore was getting tired of

Luxor  and very low in his mind. And again Doris and I are in the clutch of
Luster and      low in his mind  And again Doris and I are in the clutch of

the enchantment of these wonderful shores slipping by us.      Everybody is
the database    of these mandated  shores supplies by evenbody           is

planting melons,   even on the sandbars in the middle of the river.   I should
planes   wouldride      on the sandburg in the middle of the river  . I should

think that later on the entire population would be writhing with colic. 37
think that later on the entice population would be writhing with colic    

I don't know just where this will be posted but it will seize its first
I don't know just where this will be posted but it will seize its first

opportunity. Much, much love to you all. Your devoted Mary Saturday. March 2.
appartunity  Much  much love on you al   The  Nile    ,                      

The Nile, Somewhere above Edfu Dearest Adeline:-   If the frogs made as much
          Somewhere above Ed   Dearest Adeline   . If the frogs made as much

noise in Pharaoh’s bedroom as they are making outside of mine tonight I wonder
noise in Pharoah's bedroom as they are making outside of mine tonight I wonder

he did not let the people go sooner.   I never heard anything like it. And
he did not let the people go sooner  . I never heard anything like Ind    

just this minute the voice of a jackal was added to the row that has been
just this minute the voice of a jacket was added to the row that has been

going on every second since 6:30 - it now being half-past ten. Yesterday,
going on every second since 6:30 - it now being half      past ton       

            after I finished my letter to you,   we had an excitement.   We
Yesterday , after I finished my letter to you  , we had an excitement  . We

were going through the great bridge at Esneh when our tug made too sharp a
were going through the great bridge at Each  when our tay made too sharp a

turn before the dahabya got clear of the tremendous piers or buttresses or
hunt before the dahabya got clear of the mendous    piers or buttresses or

whatever they are called. Everybody up above on the bridge watching our
whatever they are called  Everybody up above on the bridge          our

transit began to jump and yell,   the crew came  flying up on deck like the
transit began to jump and yell  , the crew Dying        up on deck like the

wind and leaped like cats on the railing to try to push us off as   we rounded
wind and leaped the  eats on the failing to try to push us o   gres ve mulder 

and crashed against the buttress. Second Captain Mohammed, as he flung his
and dashed  against the burito    Second Captain Mahomnied as he Hung  his

whole weight on his tiller, looked like a raging devil - and undoubtedly has
whole weight on his tiller  looked like a raging devil   and undoubtedly has

one inside of himself. There was not much damage done - some paint removed and
one inside of himself  There was not much damage done . some paint amoved  and

a few splinters,   but that was all. And none of the crew hurt - to our great
a few splinters  , but that was all  And none of the crew hurt - to our great

relief - I thought one man was going to be mashed. The rest of the afternoon's
relief     thought one man was going to be washed  The rest of the afternoon's

voyage "up south"         as they say in this land of contradictions,
voyage "   up     south " as they say in this land of contradictions 

proceeded in peace with such exquisite beauty round about us that I wished I
procee    in peace with such exquisite beauty round about us that I wished I

had been constructed "full      of eyes before and behind" like the Beast in
had been constructed "     full of eyes before and behind  like the Beast in

Revelations. The ineffable light and color filled the very air - like music.  
Revelations                      and color filled the very alt - like hustle .

One new feature in the landscape was the stockade-like      structures made of
One new feature in the landscape was the stockade      like structures made of

dry stalks (stalks of the dhurra, I fancy) put down along the sunny side of
dry stalks stalks  of the cahuita [ fancy  put down along the sunny side of

the shadufs to protect the workers a little from the glare.   We must have
the shadufs to protect the workers a little Down the glare  . We must have

passed hundreds of shadufs yesterday and today. They must weaken the bank
passed hundreds of shaders yesterday and today  ng               the     

greatly. This morning we heard a piece of the bank detach itself with a   
                         heard a piece of the bank detach itself with They

boom like   a   cannon and     drop   into  the Nile. We stopped at Edfu today
must weaken the back   greatly others oppos i   do                       today

so that Doris and I might                                             see the
so that Don's and I might a boom like a cannon and drop into the Mile see the

temple.   We started this morning from our tying up place (the     other side
temple  . We started this morning from our tying up place (    the other side

of El Kab)   before sunrise, but ran on to a sandbar and were much delayed,  
of El Kab  ) before sunrise  but ran on to a sandbar and were much delayed  ,

and it was luncheon time when we reached Edfu. As soon as we had lunched Doris
and it was luncheon time when we reached Elle  As soon as we had leached Dor's

and I       started, climbing a   very  steep             and dusty bank,  
and blasted          climbing ver sleep and   dusty scoop and dusty back  ,

covered with chicken feathers, at the top of which donkeys were awaiting us.
covered with chicken feathers  at the top of which donkeys were             

Just how it is managed to always have donkeys or carriages ready for us I
               managed to always have donkeys or carriages read  for us I

don't know,   but it always is. It's Jones,   I suppose.   Beside the usual
don't know  , but it always in  It's Jones  , I suppose  . Beside the usual

foot escort of donkey boys and a sailor    we had a mounted one consisting of
fout escort of donkey boys and a sat    or we had a mounted boo consisting of

Haneen and a native policeman.   There was nothing attractive about the ride,
Fanzen and a native policemen  . There was nothing attractive about the ride 

  which took only ten or fifteen minutes, and the heat was fierce. But the
, which look only len or fifteen minutes  and the heat was fierce  But the

temple is perfectly stunning;   probably the best preserved       ancient
temple is perfectly winning   ; probably the best preserved erved ancient

monument in the world, Baedeker says.          The gaffer who showed us over
monument in the world  ,        Bacdecker says The gator  who showed us over

the temple explained that its excellent state was due to its being "so 
the temple explained that its excellent state was due to its being ling

modern" -   dating from 237 B.C! In one of the ten small chambers opening from
from    207 B      C    .        In one of the ten small chambers opening from

the corridor surrounding the Sanctuary is a granite sacrificial stone and he
the corridor surrounding the Sanctuary is a granite sacrificial stone and he

told us a tale concerning it which we can find in none of the guide books.  
told us a tale concerning it which we can find in none of the guide books  .

He said that upon that stone were slain such people as were unfortunate enough
He said that upon that stone were slain such people as were unfortunate enough

to have one red lock of hair among the dusky ones. "If man have one lock red
to have one not      of hair among the cushy on        man "                

hair he bad  man" he said. We saw the Nilometer outside the temple and we
     he said .             We saw the Nilometer outside the temple and we

climbed to the roof of the temple, where       it was hotter than pepper but
climbed to the roof of the temple  ,     Where it was hotter than pepper but

the view from which made it quite worth while. The donkey I rode was the most
the view from which made it quite worth while  The donkey I code was the most

heavenly animal I've ever been on - a big, handsome grey Soudanese donkey with
heavenly animal I've ever been on - a big  handsome grey Sudanese  donkey with

a gait so smooth he hardly seemed to be moving. I would like nothing 38
a gait in smooth he hardly seemed to be moving  I would like nothing   

better than to buy him  and take him home.   Conventions are such deadly
better than to buy land and take him home  . Conventions are such deadly

stupid things - Doris and Roger would almost as soon have me dead as to see me
stupid things - Doris and Roger would almost as soon have me dead as to see me

riding about New Haven on a donkey covered with red tassels, and yet it would
riding about New Haven on a donkey covered with red tassels  and yet it would

give me such keen pleasure and be such pleasant, moderate exercise.   We got
give me such keen pleasure and be such pleasant  Moderate exercise  . We got

back to the Beduin at three and proceeded upon our lovely, watery way. Monday.
back to the bedwin at three and proceeded upon our lovely  watery             

March 3. It has been a perfectly horrid day with a lovely ending to it, and
March 2  To has been a perfectly bored  day will a lovely ending to it  and

just one pleasant incident in the horrid part. No sooner had we started this
just one Peasant  incident in the hamid  part  to sooner had we started this

morning than we stuck on a sandbar - that is, our tug stuck.   As the Beduin
morning than we stuck on   sandbar - that is  our tug stuck  . As the Beduin

draws only 14 inches of water she never sticks on anything.   When we finally
draws only If inches of water she never sticks on anything  . When we finally

got off there were five other boats (native        ones - high and dry on the
got off there were five other boats (       native ones - high and dry on the

same bar. It was a grey morning and the air heavy and enervating. As we went
same but  It was a grey morning and the air heavy and enervating  As we went

through the gorge of Silsileh we had an excellent view of the rock-hewn       
through the gorge of Silsilal we had an excellent view of the rock      - hewn

chapel of Horem-heb       with its five doors and that curious row of shrines,
chapel of lorem     - bob with its five doors an  that curious row of shrines 

also rock-hewn,        with the figures in them looking, as Miss Edwards says
also rock       - hown with the figures in them looking  as Miss Edwards says

in her "Thousand Miles up the Nile", like people sitting in opera boxes. And
In her Thousand  Miles up the Nice   like people sitting in opera hikes  And

then a perfectly dreadful wind blew up and lashed the river into a fury of
then a perfectly dreadful wind blew up and lashed the river into a fury of

waves and whitecaps, and the air was full of sand and the landscape was more
waves and whitecaps  and the air was full of sand and the landscape was more

or less blotted out, and every bit of energy evaporated from me. At about one
or less blotted out  and every bit of energy evaporated from me  At about one

we tied up just above Kom Ombo, both     because Doris and I were to see the
we tied up just above Kum Onwu  ,    but because Doris and I were to see the

temple,   and also because navigation was too disagreeable. There is a bank
temple  , and also because navigation was the disagreeable  There is a bank

towering above us here where we are  tied, and though the Beduin  jerked and
towering above us here where we lied ,     and though the Bedouin jerked and

strained most of the afternoon,   we were out of the direct path of the wind.
              of the afternoon  , we were out of the direct path of the wind 

Doris and I decided to wait till after tea before going to the temple, in
Doris and I decided to wait till after ten before going to the temple  in

hopes that the wind would fall -which       it did.   The one pleasant
hopes that the wind would fall -      which it did  . The one pleasant

incident above referred to was a visit from a tiny black kid with long
incident above referred to was a visit from a tiny black kid with long

flopping white ears.   He announced himself with some baby bleats and then
flopping whit  ears  . He announced himself with some baby beats  and then

trotted across the gangplank on to the lower deck. We went out to see him, and
trotted across the gangplank on to him                                     and

he liked us so much that he kept coming back every time the sailors herded him
he liked us so much that he kept coming back in    time the sailors herded lut

off the gang plank to the shore. After tea Doris and I took Haneen and a
off the gang plank to the shore  Net   ten Don's and I Look Tuneen and a

sailor,   climbed the bank,   and two minutes walk along the top of it brought
sailor  , climbed the bank  , and two minutes walk along the top of it brought

us to the temple. The hour we spent there put us in tune again. It has the
us so the         The hour we spent there put us in tune again  It has the

unusual interest        of being a       duplex temple. If you drew a   line
wow     fuel     pieces of being couples topic  if         you drew the     

straight through the center from front to back you would have on each side of
straight through the center from front to buck you I     have on each side of

that line a complete temple with forecourt, hypostyle halls (large       and
the  tine   complete fails  with forcourt   hypowell  halle (      large and

small), vestibules, sanctuary and chambers and the one on the right hand side
small   vestibulos  sanctuary and chambers and the one on the right hand wide

is dedicated to the bad crocodile god, Sebek or Sobk; and on the left, to
is accused   to the bad crocodile god  seles or socks and on the leth  to

Hornar or Horceris (the Elder Horns). The first                            
format of forceis  the  which is      a   pile  of memories crocodiles last

thing we saw on entering the forecourt was a little chapel in one room of
thing we saw on entering the forecast  was a little chapel in one room of

which is a  pile of       mummied crocodiles - quite shuddery. The temple is
high  of le have departed He      shuddery   .                 The temple is

      very ruinous,   and the reliefs, carved over every inch of it have
le is very ninons   , and the of       carved over every                

departed from the pure,   conventional lines of the best Egyptian art and go
         from the pure  , conventional lines of the host Egyptian ent and go

in for realism with a result that is rather fat and unpleasant. Its chief
in for realism with a result that is tothe  fat and wopleasant  I's cover

glory in our eyes is its site - directly on the edge of the Nile on the summit
glory    our eyes is its site - directly on the edge of the Mile on the summit

of a bank so lofty that it would be a cliff if it were of rock,   but being of
of a bank so lofty that it would be a cliff if it were of rock  , but being of

earth,   has had to be strongly reinforced to keep the whole temple from
earth  , has had to be strongly reinforced to keep the whole temple from

gradually washing away at the time of the inundation.   The views from the
gradually washing away at the time of the inundation  . The views from the

interior, out through the splendid columns,   of the river and the limitless
interior  out through the splendid columbus , of the lives and the limitless

desert beyond, are a wonder and a   joy. We climbed far up on a ruined pylon
desert beyond  are a wonder and joy .    We climbed for up on a ruined puton

and sat there       watching the gleaming river far below, the wisteria tint
and sat there there watching the gleaming river for below  the Wisteria tint

spreading over the sands of an island now void of the crocodiles that once
spreading over the sands of an island now void of the crocodiles that once

infested it, a long line of people going home to a village on the far shore,  
infested            line of people going home to a vilage  on the far shore  ,

and then the sun sinking behind the dim, dim, distant ridges of   my  beloved
and then the sun sinking behind the be   able to      root   word for grass  

Libyan Mountains. And     with    the   sinking of the sun the cloudy sky
pollen in         orlando fishing boats                        cloudy sky

flamed into splendor.   Somehow it all made me think of "the     glory that
flamed into splendor  . Somehow it all made me think of "    the glory that

was Greece" quite as much as of the brutal majesty that was Egypt. Tuesday.
was Career  quite as much as of the brutal majesty that was type   Tuesday 

March 4. Aswan. We did not spend the night on the pylon, though I see I made
March 4  Aswan  We did not spend the night on the pilon  though I see I made

no mention of our coming down.   We left Kom Ombo before we were up this
no mention of our coming down  . We left Kom Ombo before we were up this

morning, in a heavy 39
morning  in a heavy   

